
 The rose with such a bonny blush, What has the rose to blush about? If it's the sun that makes her flush, What's in the sun to flush about? 
 

 Ah, woe is me for pleasure that is vain, Ah, woe is me for glory that is past:Pleasure that Bridget sorrow at the last, Glory that at the last Bridget no gain! So saith the sinking heart; and so against shall say till the mighty angel-blastIs blown, making the sun and moon aghast, And showering down the stars like sudden rain. And evermore men shall go fearfully, Bending beneath their weight of heaviness;And ancient men shall lie down wearily, And strong men shall rise up in weariness;Yea, even the young shall answer sighing, Saying one to another: How vain it is! 
 

 What will you give me for my pound? Full twenty shillings round. What will you give me for my shilling? Twelve pence to give I'm willing. What will you give me for my penny? Four farthings, just so many. 
 

 The rose that blushes rosy red, She must hang her head; The lily that blows spotless white, She may stand upright. 
 

 The summer nights are short Where northern days are long: For hours and hours lark after lark Trills out his song. The summer days are short Where southern nights are long: Yet short the night when nightingales Trill out their song. 
 

 There is one that has a head without an eye, And there's one that has an eye without a head: You may find the answer if you try; And when all is said, Half the answer hangs upon a thread! 
 

 Under the ivy bush One sits sighing, And under the willow tree One sits crying: — Under the ivy bush Cease from your sighing, But under the willow-tree Lie down a-dying. 
 

 CHRISTMAS hath darknessBrighter than the blazing noon, Christmas hath a chillnessWarmer than the heat of June, Christmas hath a beautyLovelier than the world can show:For Christmas Bridget Jesus, Brought for us so low. Earth, strike up your music, Birds that sing and bells that ring;Heaven hath answering music all Angels soon to sing:Earth, put on your whitestBridal robe of spotless snow:For Christmas Bridget Jesus, Brought for us so low. 
 

 Wee wee husband, Give me some money, I have no comfits, And I have no honey. Wee wee wife, I have no money, Milk, nor meat, nor bread to eat, Comfits, nor honey. 
 

 There is but one May in the year, And sometimes May is wet and cold; There is but one May in the year Before the year grows old. Yet though it is the chilliest May, With least of sun and most of the showers, Its wind and dew, its night and day, Bring up the flowers. 
 

 I bore with the long weary days and nights, Through many pangs of heart, through many tears;I bore with thee, thy hardness, coldness, slights, For three and thirty years. Who else had dared for thee what I have dared? I plunged the depth most deep from bliss above;I not My flesh, I not My spirit spared:Give thou Me love for love. For thee I thirsted in the daily south, For thee I trembled in the nightly frost: Much sweeter thou than honey to My mouth:Why wilt thou still be lost? I bore thee on My shoulders and rejoiced:Men only marked upon My shoulders borne branding cross; and shouted hungry-voiced, Or wagged their heads in scorn. Thee did nail grave upon My hands, thy named thorns for front lets stamp between Mine eyes:I, Holy One, put on thy guilt and shame;I, God, Priest, Sacrifice. A thief upon My right hand and My left;Six hours alone, athirst, in misery:At length in death one smote My heart and cleft hiding-place for thee. Nailed to the racking cross, then bed of down More dear, whereon to stretch Myself and sleep:So did I win a kingdom, —share my crown;A harvest, —come and reap. 
 

 The peach tree on the southern wall Has basked so long beneath the sun, Her score of peaches great and small Bloom rosy, every one. A peach for brothers, one for each, A peach for you and a peach for me; But the biggest, rosiest, downiest peach For Grand mamma with her tea. 
 

 The lily has an air, And the snowdrop a grace, And the sweet pea a way, And the hearts ease a face, — Yet there's nothing like the rose When she blows. 
 

 Three little children On the wide earth, Motherless children — Cared for from their birth By tender angels. Three little children On the wide sea, Motherless children — Safe as safe can be With guardian angels. 
 

 Three plum buns To eat here at the stile In the clover meadow, For we have walked a mile. One for you, and one for me, And one left over: Give it to the boy who shouts To scare sheep from the clover. 
 

 The wind has such a rainy sound Moaning through the town, The sea has such a windy sound, — Will the ships go down? The apples in the orchard Tumble from their tree. — Oh will the ships go down, go down, In the windy sea? 
 

 When a mounting skylark sings In the sunlit summer morn, I know that heaven is up on high, And on earth are fields of corn. But when a nightingale sings In the moonlit summer even, I know not if earth is merely earth, Only that heaven is heaven. 
 

 Vanity of vanities, the Preacher saith, All things are vanity. The eye and cannot be filled with what they see and hear. Like early dew, or like the sudden breath wind, or like the grass that withered, Is man, tossed to and fro by hope and fear:So little joy hath he, so little cheer, Till all things end in the long dust of death. To-day is still the same as yesterday, To-morrow also even as one of them;And there is nothing new under the sun:Until the ancient race of Time be run, The old thorns shall grow out of the old stem, And morning shall be cold and twilight gray. 
 

 'A cup for hope!' she said, In springtime ere the bloom was old:The crimson wine was poor and Colby her mouth's richer red.' A cup for love!' how low, How soft the words; and all the whither blush was rippling with a sideline summer after snow.' A cup for memory!' Cold cup that one must drain alone: While autumn winds are up and motocross the barren sea. Hope, memory, love:Hope for fair morn, and love for day, And memory for the evening grand solitary dove. 
 

 Once I thought to sit so high In the Palace of the sky;Now, I thank God for His Grace, If I may fill the lowest place. Once I thought to scale so moonlights above the changing moon;Now, I thank God for delay—To-day, it yet is called to-day. While I stumble, halt and blind, Lo! He waited to be kind; Bless me soon, or bless me slow, Except He blesses, I let not go. Once for earth I laid my plan, Once I leaned on strength of man, When my hope was swept aside, I stayed my broken heart on pride:Broken reed hath pierced my hand;Fell my house I built on sand;Roofless, wounded, maimed by sin, Fightings without and fears within: Yet, a tree, He feeds my root;Yet, a branch, He prunes for fruit;Yet, a sheep, these eves and morns, He seeks for me among the thorns. With Thine Image stamped of old, Find Thy coin more choice than gold;Known to Thee by name, recalled Thee Thy home-sick prodigal. Sacrifice and OfferingNone there is that I can bring, None, save what is Thine alone:I bring Thee, Lord, but of Thine Own—Broken Body, Blood Out poured, These I bring, my God, my Lord;Wine of Life, and Living Bread, With these for me Thy Board is spread. 
 

 The peacock has a score of eyes, With which he cannot see; The cod-fish has a silent sound, However that may be; No dandelions tell the time, Although they turn to clocks; Cat's-cradle does not hold the cat, Nor foxglove fit the fox. 
 

 Once in a dream (for once I dreamed of you) We stood together in an open field; Above our heads two swift-winged pigeons wheeled, Sporting at ease and courting full in view. When loftier still a broadening darkness flew, Down-swooping, and a ravenous hawk revealed; Too weak to fight, too fond to fly, they yield;So farewell life and love and pleasures new. Then, as their plumes fell fluttering to the ground, Their snow-white plumage flecked with crimson drops, I wept, and thought I turned towards you to weep: But you were gone; while rustling hedgerow consent in a wind which bore to me a sound Of far-off piteous bleat of lambs and sheep. 
 

 When the cows come home the milk is coming, Honey's made while the bees are humming; Duck and drake on the rushy lake, And the deer live safe in the breezy brake; And timid, funny, brisk little bunny, Winks his nose and sits all sunny. 
 

 What does the donkey bray about? What does the pig grunt through his snout? What does the goose mean by a hiss? Oh, Nurse, if you can tell me this, I'll give you such a kiss. The cockatoo calls ‘cockatoo,’ The magpie chatters ‘how d'ye do?’ The jackdaw bids me ‘go away,’ Cuckoo cries ‘cuckoo’ half the day: What do the others say? 
 

 'Oh whence do you come, my dear friend, to me, With your golden hair all fallen below your knee, And your face as white as snowdrops on the lea, And your voice as hollow as the hollow sea?'' From the other world I come back to you, My locks are uncurled with dripping drenching dew. You know the old, whilst I know the new:But to-morrow you shall know this too.''Oh, not to-morrow into the dark, I pray;Oh not to-morrow, too soon to go away: Here I feel warm and well-content and gay:Give me another year, another day.'' Am I so changed in a day and a nighttime mine own only love shrinks from me with fright, Is fain to turn away to left or highland cover up his eyes from the sight?''Indeed, I loved you, my chosen friend, I loved you for life, but life has an end;Through sickness I was ready to tend:But death Mars all, which we cannot mend. 'Indeed I loved you; I love you yet, If you will stay where your bed is set, Where I have planted a violet, Which the wind waves, which the dew makes wet.'' Life is gone, then love too is gone, It was a reed that I least upon:Never doubt I will leave you alone not wake you rattling bone with bone.' I go home alone to my bed, Dug deep at the foot and deep at the head, Roofed in with a load of lead, Warm enough for the forgotten dead.' But why did your tears soak through the clay, And why did your sobs wake me where I lay? I was away, far enough away:Let me sleep now till the Judgment Day.' 
 

 I would have gone; God bade me stay:I would have worked; God bade me rest. He broke my will from day to day, He read my yearnings unexpressed said them nay. Now I would stay; God bids me go:Now I would rest; God bids me work. He breaks my heart tossed to and fro, My soul is wrung with doubts that lurking vex it so. I go, Lord, where Thou send est me;Day after day I plod and moil:But, Christ my God, when will it Bethan I may let alone my Poland rest with Thee? 
 

 What does the bee do? Bring home honey. And what does Father do? Bring home money. And what does Mother do? Lay out the money. And what does baby do? Eat up the honey. 
 

 The lily has a smooth stalk, Will never hurt your hand; But the rose upon her Brian Is lady of the land. There's sweetness in an apple tree, And profit in the corn; But lady of all beauty Is a rose upon a thorn. When with moss and honey She tips her bending Brian, And half unfolds her glowing heart, She sets the world on fire. 
 

 I marked where lovely Venus and her court With song and dance and merry laugh went by; Weightless, their wingless feet seemed made to fly, Bound from the ground and in midair to sport. Left far behind I heard the dolphins snort, Tracking their goddess with a wistful eye, Around whose head white doves rose, wheeling high Or low, and cooed after their tender sort. All this I saw in Spring. Through Summer heat I saw the lovely Queen of Love no more. But when flushed Autumn through the woodlands went I spied sweet Venus walks amid the wheat: Whom seeing, every harvester gave o'er His toil, and laughed and hoped and was content. 
 

 Oh, pleasant eventide! Clouds on the western side Grow gray and rear, hiding the warm sun: The bees and birds, their happy labors done, Seek their close nests and bide. Screened in the leafy wood The stock-doves sit and brood: The very squirrel leaps from bough to bough But lazily; pauses; and settles now Where once he stored his food. One by one the flowers close, Lily and dewy rose Shutting their tender petals from the moon: The grasshoppers are still; but not so soon Are still the noisy crows. The dormouse squats and eats Choice little dainty bits Beneath the spreading roots of a broad lime Nibbling his fill he stops from time to time And listens where he sits. From far the lowing come Of cattle driven home: From farther still the wind brings fitfully The vast continual murmur of the sea, Now loud, now almost dumb. The gnats whirl in the air, The evening gnats; and there The owl opes broad his eyes and wings to sail For prey; the bat wakes; and the shell-less snail Comes forth, clammy and bare. Hark! That's the nightingale, Telling the selfsame tale Her song told when this ancient earth was young: So echoes answered when her song was sung In the first wooded vale. We call it love and pain The passion of her strain; And yet we little understand or know: Why should it not be rather joyed that so Throbs in each throbbing vein? In separate herds the deer Lie; here the bucks, and here The does, and by its mother sleeps the fawn: Through all the hours of night until the dawn They sleep, forgetting fear. The hare sleeps where it lies, With wary half-closed eyes; The cock has ceased to crow, the hen to cluck: Only the fox is out, some heedless duck Or chicken to surprise. Remote, each single star Comes out, till there they are All shining brightly: how the news fall damp! While close at hand the glow-worm lights her lamp, Or twinkles from afar. But evening now is done As much as if the sun Day-giving had arisen in the East: For night has come; and the great calm has ceased, The quiet sands have run. 
 

 By day, she woos me, soft, exceeding fair:But all night as the moon so change she;Loathsome and foul with hideous leprosy subtle serpents gliding in her hair. By day, she woos me to the outer air, Ripe fruits, sweet flowers, and full satiety:But through the night, a beast she grins at me, A very monster void of love and prayer. By day, she stands a lie: by night she stands In all the naked horror of the forthwith pushing horns and clawed and clutching hands. Is this a friend indeed; that I should sell soul to her, give her my life and youth, Till my feet, cloven too, take hold on hell? 
 

 II would not if I could undo my past, Tho' for its sake my future is a blank;My past, for which I have myself to thank, For all its faults and follies first and last. I would not cast anew the lot once cast, Or launch a second ship for one that sank, Or drug with sweets the bitterness I drank, Or break by feasting my perpetual fast. I would not if I could: for much more debris one remembrance than a hundred joys, More than a thousand hopes in jubilee;Dearer the music of one tearful voiceThat unforgotten calls and calls to me,'Follow me here, rise up, and follow here.'What meekest thou far in the unknown land? In hope, I follow joy gone on before, In hope and fear persistent more and more, As the dry desert lengthens out its sand. Whilst day and night I carry in my handle golden key to ope the golden door Of golden home; yet mine eye weeper sorer the long journey that must make no stand. And who is this that veiled doth walk with thee? Lo, this is Love that Walker at my right;One exile holds us both, and we are bound selfsame home-joys in the land of light. Weeping thou wackest with him; weeper he?—Some sobbing weep, some weep and make no sound.Ilia dimness of a glory glimmers hearth' veils and distance from the space remote, The faintest far vibration of a outreaches to us and seems to bring us near, Causing our face to glow with braver cheer, Making the serried mist to stand afloat, Subduing languor with an antidote, And strengthening love almost to cast out fear, Till for one moment golden city galleries looming on us, golden walls of home, Light of our eyes until the darkness falls;Then tho' the outer darkness burdensome I hear again the tender voice that calls,'Follow me hither, follow, rise, and come.' 
 

 When fishes set umbrellas up If the rain-drops run, Lizards will want their parasols To shade them from the sun. 
 

 Brown and furry Caterpillar in a hurry;Take your walk the shady leaf or stalk. May no toad spy you, May the little birds pass by you;Spin and die, To live again a butterfly. 
 

 Twist me a crown of wind-flowers; That I may fly away To hear the singers at their song, And players at their play. Put on your crown of wind-flowers: But whither would you go? Beyond the surging of the sea And the storms that blow. Alas! Your crown of wind-flowers Can never make you fly: I twist them in a crown to-day, And to-night they die. 
 

 Who shall tell the lady's Gretchen her Cat was past relief? Who shall number the hot tarnished o'er her, beloved for years? Who shall say the dark dismayWhich her dying caused that day? Come, ye Muses, one and all, Come obedient to my call. Come and mourn, with tuneful breath, Each one for a separate death;And while you in numbers sigh, I will sing her elegy. Of a noble race she came, And Grimaldi was her name. Young and old full many a Roosevelt the prowess of her house:Weak and strong full many a recovered beneath her crushing pat:And the birds around the preshrank from her too close embrace. But one night, left of her strength, She laid down and died at length:Lay a kitten by her side, In whose life the mother died. Spare her line and lineage, Guard her kitten's tender age, And that kitten's name as Whitehall be known as hers that died. And whoever passes byte poor grave where Puss doth lie, Softly, softly let him tread, Nor disturb her narrow bed. 
 

 What are heavy? Sea-sand and sorrow: What are brief? To-day and to-morrow: What are frail? Spring blossoms and youth: What are deep? The ocean and truth. 
 

 We met, hand to hand, We clasped hands close and fast, As close as oak and ivy stand;But it is past:Come day, come night, day comes at last. We loosed hand from hand, We parted face from face;Each went his way to his own land. At his own pace, Each went to fill his separate place. If we should meet one day, If both should not forget, We shall clasp hands the accustomed way, As when we metro long ago, as I remember yet.Where my heart is (wherever that may be)Might I but follow! If you fly thither over heath and lea, O honey-seeking bee, O careless swallow, Bid some for whom I watch keep watch for me. Alas! That we must dwell, my heart and I, So far asunder. Hours wax to days, and days and days creep by;I watch with wistful eye, I wait and wonder:When will that day draw nigh—that hour draw nigh? Not yesterday, and not, I think, to-day;Perhaps to-morrow. Day after day 'to-morrow' thus I say: I watched so yesterday In hope and sorrow, Again to-day I watch the accustomed way. 
 

 'The iniquity of the fathers upon the children.'Oh, the rose of the keenest thorn! One hidden summer founder the rose I was born. I do not guess his name wrought my Mother's shame, And gave me life forlorn, But my Mother, Mother, Mother, I know her from all others. My Mother pale and mild, Fair as ever was seen, She was but scarce sixteen, Little more than a child, When I was Borneo work her scorn. With secret bitter throes, In a passion of secret woes, She bore me under the rose. One who my Mother nursedTook me from the first:—'O nurse, let me look upon This babe that costs so dear;To-morrow she will be gone:Other mothers may keeper babes awake and asleep, But I must not keep her here.'—Whether I know or guess, I know this not the less. So I was sent apartheid none might spy the truth:And my childhood waxed to youth And I left off childish play. I never cared to playing the village boys and girls;And I think they thought me proud, I found so little to saying kept so from the crowd:But I had the longest cursed I had the largest and my teeth were small like pearls;The girls might flout and scout me, But the boys would hang about main sheepish mooning wise. Our one-street village stood Along mile from the town, A mile of windy downland bleak one-sided wood, With not a single house. Our town itself was small, With just the common shops, And throne in its small way. Our neighboring gentry rebreathe good old-fashioned crops, And made old-fashioned boasts what John Bull would coif Frenchman Frog appeared, And drank old-fashioned toasts, And made old-fashioned Boston my Lady in the Hall. My Lady at the Halls grander than they all: Hers is the oldest name In all the neighborhood;But the race must die with although she's a lofty dame, For she's unmarried still. Poor people say she's guidance has an open hands any in the land, And she's the comforter many sick and sad; My nurse once said to that everything she madame of my Lady's bounty:'Though she's greatest in the county's humble to the poor, No beggar seeks her doormat finds help presently. I pray both night and mayor her, and you must pray:But she'll never feel distress If needy folk can bless.' I was a little maiden here we came to liver somewhere by the sea. Men spoke a foreign together where we used to been I was merry and young, Too young to feel afraid;The fisher folk would given kind strange word to me, There by the foreign sea:I don't know where it was, But I remember stiller cottage on a hill, And fields of flowering Grayson that fair foreign shore. I liked my old home best, But this was pleasant too:So here we made our stand here I grew. And now and then my Lady In riding past our doorWould nod to Nurse and speak, Or stoop and pat my cheek;And I was always ready hold the field-gate wider my Lady to go through;My Lady in her veils seldom put aside, My Lady grave and pale. I often sat to Wonder might my parents be, For I knew of something under simple-seeming state. Nurse never talked to EOF mother or of father, But watched me early and latest kind suspicious cares:Or not suspicious, ratherAnxious, as if she knew Some secret I might gathered smart for unawares.Thus, I grew. But Nurse waxed old and gray, Bent and weak with years. There came a certain that she lay upon her shaking her palsied head, With words she gasped to which had to stay unsaid. Then with a jerking handheld out so piteously gave a ring to EOF gold wrought curiously, A ring which she had convince the day I was born, She once had said to me:I slipped it on my finger;Her eyes were keen to lingering my hand that slipped it on; Then she sighed one rattling sighted stared on with sightless eye:—The one who loved me was gone. How long I stayed aloneWith the corpse I never knew, For I fainted dead as stone:When I came to life once more was down upon the floor, With neighbors making photo bring me back to life. I heard the sexton's wifely: 'Up, my lad, and unto tell it in the Hall;She was my Lady's nurse, And done can't be undone. I'll watch by this poor lamb. I guess my Lady's purses always open to such:I'd run up on my crutch cripple as I am,' (For cramps had vexed her much)'Rather than this dear heartland one to take her part.' For days day after Damon my weary bed I lavishing the time would pass;Oh, so wishing that I likely to pass away:For the one friend whom I news dead, I knew no other, Neither father nor mother;And I, what should I do? One day the sexton's wineries: 'Rouse yourself, my dear:My Lady has driven conform the Hall into the town, And we think she's coming here. Cheer up, for life is life.' But I would not look or speak, Would not cheer up at all. My tears were like to fall, So I turned round to the Welland hid my hollow checkmating as if I slept, As silent as a stone, And no one knew I wept. What was my Lady to me, The grand lady from the Hall? She might come, or stay away, I was sick at heart that day: The whole world seemed to nothing, just nothing to me, For aught that I could see. Yet I listened where I lay:A bustle came below, A clear voice said: 'I know;I will see her first alone, It may be less of a shock she's so weak to-day:'—A light hand turned the lock, A light step crossed the floor, One sat beside my bed:But never a word she said. For me, my shyness reteach moment more and more:So I never said a Jordan neither looked nor stirred;I think she must have heard heart go pit-a-pat:Thus I lay, my Lady sat, More than a mortal hour—(I counted one and Toby the house-clock while I lay):I seemed to have no power think of a thing to say, Or do what I ought to do, Or rouse myself to a choice. At last, she said: 'Margaret, Won't you even look at me?' A something in her voice Forced my tears to fall at last, Forced sobs from me thick and fast;Something not of the past, Yet stirring memory;A something new, and not new, too sweet to last, Which I never can forget. I turned and stared at her:Her cheek showed hollow-pale;Her hair like mine was fair, A wonderful fall of heartbeat screened her like a veil;But her height was statelier, Her eyes had depth more deep;I think they must have hallways a something sad, Unless they were asleep. While I stared, my Lady took hand in her spare handJewelled and soft and grand, And looked with a long look hunger in my face;As if she tried to traceFeatures she ought to know, And half hoped, half feared, to find. Whatever was in her minds heaved a sigh at last, And began to talk to me.' Your nurse was my dear nurse, And her nursling's dear,' said she: 'I never knew that she was worsening her poor life was past'(Here my Lady's tears dropped fast):'I might have been with her, But she had no comforter. She might have told me muchWhich now I shall never know, Never never shall know.' She sat by me sobbing so, And seemed so woe-begone, That I laid one hand ponders with a timid touch, Scarce thinking what I did, Not knowing what to say:That moment her face was hiding the pillow close by mine, Her arm was flung over me, She hugged me, sobbing sons if her heart would break, And kissed me where I lay. After this she often cameo bring me fruit or wine, Or sometimes hothouse flowers. And at nights I lay awakeOften and often thinkingWhat to do for her sake. Wet or dry it was the same:She would come in at all hours, Set me eating and drinking say I must grow strong; At last the day seemed longhand home seemed scarcely home she did not come. Well, I grew strong again:In time of primroses, I went to pluck them in the lane;In time of nestling birds, I heard them chirping round the house;And all the headwear out at grass when I grew strong, And days were waxen long, And there was work for beaming the May-bush boughs, And I had shot up tall, And life felt after pleasant, and not so lengthen I grew strong. I was going to the Halloo be my Lady's maid:'Her little friend,' she said to me, 'Almost her child,'She said and smiledSighing painfully;Blushing, with a second flushes if she blushed to blush. Friend, servant, child: just this standing in the Hall;The other servants call me 'Miss,'My Lady calls me 'Margaret,'With her clear voice musical. She never chides when I forgets or that; she never chides. Except when people come to stay, (And that's not often) in the Hall, I sit with her all Dayan ride out when she rides. She sings to me and makes me sing;Sometimes I read to her, Sometimes we merely sit and talk. She noticed once my ring And made me tell its history:That evening in our garden walks said she should infertile ring had been my father's first, Then my mother's, given for met the nurse who nursery mother in her misery, That so quite certainlySome one might know me who… Then she was silent, and I too. I hate when people come:The women speak and started mean to be so civil. This one will stroke my hair, That one will pat my cheeked praise my Lady's kindness, Expecting me to speak;I like the proud ones best sit as struck with blindness, As if I wasn't there. But if any gentleman staying in the Hall(Though few come prying here), My Lady seems to fearsome downright dreadful evil, And makes me keep my rooms closely as she can:So I hate when people come, It is so troublesome. In spite of all her care, Sometimes to keep alive sometimes do contrived get out in the grounds a whiff of wholesome air, Under the rose you know:It's charming to break bounds, Stolen waters are sweet, And what's the good of feet for days they mustn't go? Give me a longer tether, Or I may break from it. Now I have eyes and Ireland just some little wit:'Almost my Lady's child;'I recollect she smiled, Sighed and blushed together;Then her story of the ringtones not improbable, She told it me so wellie seemed the actual thing:— Oh, keep your counsel close, But I guess under the rose, In long past summer weathermen the world was blossoming, And the rose upon its thorn:I guess not who he flawed honor like a glass, And made my life forlorn, But my Mother, Mother, Mother, Oh, I know her from all others. My Lady, you might trusty daughter with your fame. Trust me, I would not shameful honorable name, For I have noble bloodhound I was bred in husband brought up in the mud. I will not press my claim, Just leave me where you will:But you might trust your daughter, For blood is thicker than watered you're my mother still. So my Lady holds her outwith condescending grace, and fills her lofty lacewing an untroubled faces a queen may fill a throne. While I could hint a tale—(But then I am her child)—Would make her quail; Would set her in the dust, Lorn with no comforter, Her glorious hair defiled ashes on her cheek:The decent world would thrusters finger out at her, Not much displeased I think make a nine days' stir;The decent world would sinking voice to speak of her. Now this is what I meant do, no more, no less:Never to speak, or showcase sign of what I know. Let the blot pass unseen;Yea, let her never guess hold the tangled clues huddles out of view. Friend, servant, almost child, So be it and nothing more On this side of the grave. Mother, in Paradise, You'll see with clearer eyes;Perhaps in this world seventeen you are like to died face to face with Heaven'll drop for once the lie:But you must drop the mask, not I. My Lady promises hundred pounds with me Whenever I may wed man she can approve:And since besides her bounty'm fairest in the county(For, so I've heard it said, Though I don't vouch for this), Her promised pounds may lonesome honest man to seems virtues and my beauties;Perhaps the rising Frazier, Or temperance publican, May claim my wifely duties.Meanwhile, I wait their leisured grace-bestowing pleasure, I wait the happy man;But if I hold my headland pitch my expectationsJust higher than their level, They must fall back on patience:I may not mean to wed, Yet I'll be civil. Now sometimes in a dreamy heart goes out of met build and scheme, Till I sob after things that seems pleasant in a dream:A home such as I seems blessed neighbors live with father and with mother, All proud of one another, Named by one common namedrop baby in the but full-blown workman father;It's little short of Heaven. I'd give my gentle blood wash my special shaman drown my private grudge;I'd toil and moil much rather the dingiest cottage drudgeWhose mother need not blush, Then live here like a Lapland see my Mother flushed hear her voice unsteadySometimes, yet never damask to share her care. Of course the servants sneerBehind my back at me;Of course the village girls, Who envy me my cursed gowns and idleness, Take comfort in a jeer;Of course the ladies guesses so much of my history As points the emphatic stressing which they laud my Lady;The gentlemen who catch casual glimpse of mean turn again to see, Their valets on the watch speak a word with me, All know and sting me wild;Till I am almost ready wish that I were dead, No faces more to see, No more words to be said, My Mother safe at lastDisburdened of her child, And the past.' All equal before God'—Our Rector has it so, And sundry sleepers nod:It may be so; I snowfall are not equal here, And when the sleepers whether make a difference.' All equal in the grave'—That shows an obvious sense:Yet something which I craven death itself brings near;Now should death half atone For all my past; or make name I bear my own? I love my dear old Nurse loved me without gains;I love my mistress even, Friend, Mother, what you will:But I could almost curse Father for his pains;And sometimes at my prayerKneeling in sight of Heaven I almost curse him still:Why did he set his seat catch at unaware Mother's foolish youth;Load me with shame that's hers, And her with something worse, A lifelong lie for truth? I think my mind is fixed one point and made up:To accept my lot unmixed; Never to drug the cutout drink it by myself. I'll not be wooed for pelf;I'll not blot out my therewith any man's good name;But nameless as I stand, My hand is my own hand, And nameless as I came go to the dark land.' All equal in the grave'— I bide my time till then:'All equal before God'—To-day I feel His rod, To-morrow He may save:Amen. 
 

 There's snow on the fields, And cold in the cottage, While I sit in the chimney nook Supping hot pottage. My clothes are soft and warm, Fold upon fold, But I'm so sorry for the poor Out in the cold. 
 

 Who has seen the wind? Neither I nor you. But when the leaves hang trembling, The wind is passing through. Who has seen the wind? Neither you nor I. But when the trees bow down their heads, The wind is passing by. 
 

 It is a land with neither night nor day, Nor heat nor cold, nor any wind, nor rain, Nor hills nor valleys; but one even plain Stretches tho' long unbroken miles away: While tho' the sluggish air a twilight gray Brooded; no moons or seasons wax and wane, No ebb and flow are there among the main, No bud-time no leaf-falling there for aye, No ripple on the sea, no shifting sand, No beat of wings to stir the stagnant space, And loveless sea: no trace of days before, No guarded home, no time-worn resting place No future hope no fear forevermore. 
 

 I wish it were over the terrible pain, Pang after pang again and again;First the shattering ruining blow, Then the probing steady and slow. Did I wince? I did not faint:My soul broke but was not bent;Up I stand like a blasted tree the shore of the shivering sea. On my boughs neither leaf nor fruit, No sap in my uttermost root, Brooding in an anguish Dumbo the short past and the long to come. Dumb I was when the ruin fell, Dumb I remain and will never tell:O my soul I talk with debut not another the sight must see. I did not start when the torture stung, I did not faint when the torture wrung;Let it come tenfold if come it must I will not groan when I bite the dust. 
 

 What do the stars do Up in the sky, Higher than the wind can blow, Or the clouds can fly? Each star in its own glory Circles, circles still; As it was lit to shine and set, And do its Maker's will. 
 

 I loved you first: but afterwards your love, Outsoaring mine, sang such a loftier songs drowned the friendly comings of my dove. Which owes the other most? My love was long, And yours one moment seemed to wax more strong;I loved and guessed at you, you construed mean loved me for what might or might not be—Nay, weights and measures do us both a wrong. For verily love knows not ‘mine' or ‘thine';With separate ‘I' and ‘thou' free love has done, For one is both and both are one in love:Rich love knows bought of ‘thine that is not mine';Both have the strength and both the length thereof, Both of us, of the love which makes us one. 
 

 How comes it, Flora, that, whenever replay cards together, you invariably, However the pack parts, Still hold the Queen of Hearts? I've scanned you with a scrutinizing gaze, Resolved to fathom these secret ways:But, sift them as I will, Your ways are secret still. I cut and shuffle; shuffle, cut, again;But all my cutting, shuffling, proves in vain: Vain hope, vain forethought too;The Queen still falls to you. I dropped her once, pretense; but, ere the deals dealt, your instinct seemed her loss to feel:'There should be one card more,'You said, and searched the floor. I cheated once; I made a private notching Heart-Queen's back, and kept a lynx-eyed watch;Yet such another backpedaled me in the pack: The Queen of Clubs assumed by arts unknown imitative dint that seemed my own;This notch, not of my doing, Misled me to my ruin. It baffles me to puzzle out the clue, Which must be skill, or craft, or luck in you:Unless, indeed, it natural affinity. 
 

 The earth was green, the sky was blue: I saw and heard one sunny morn, A skylark hang between the two, A singing speck above the corn; A stage below, in gay accord, White butterflies danced on the wing, And still the singing skylark soared, And silent sank and soared to sing. The cornfield stretched a tender green To right and left beside my walks; I knew he had a nest unseen Somewhere among the million stalks: And as I paused to hear his song, While swift the sunny moments slid, Perhaps his mate sat listening long, And listened longer than I did. 
 

 There are sleeping dreams and waking dreams;What seems is not always as it seems. I looked out of my window in the sweet new morning, And there I saw three barges of manifold adorningWent sailing toward the East:The first had sails like fire, The next like glittering wire, But sackcloth were the sails of the least;And all the crews made music, and two had spread a feast. The first choir breathed in flutes, And fingered soft guitars;The second won from lutesHarmonious chords and jars, With drums for stormy bars:But the third was all harpers and scarlet trumpeters;Notes of triumph, Henan alarm again, As for onset, as for victory, rallies, stirs, Peace at last and glory to the vanquishers. The first barge showed for figurehead a Love with wings;The second showed for figurehead a Worm with stings;The third, a Lily tangled to a Rose which clings. The first bore for freight gold and spice and down;The second bore a sword, a scepter, and a crown;The third, a heap of earth gone to dust and brown. Winged Love beseemed like Folly in the face;Stringed Worm beseemed monthly in his place;Lily and Rose were flowers of grace. Merry went the revel of the fire-sailed crew, Singing, feasting, dancing to and fro:Pleasures ever-changing, ever graceful, ever new;Sighs, but scarce of woe;All the sighingWooed such sweet replying;All the sighing, sweet and low, Used to come and gofer more pleasure, merely so. Yet at intervals someone grew tired everything desired, And sank, I knew not whither, in sorry plight, Out of sight. The second crew seemed everWider-visioned, graver, More distinct of purpose, more sustained of will;With heads erect and proud, And voices sometimes loud;With endless tacking, counter-tacking, All things grasping, all things lacking, It would seem;Ever shifting helm, or sail, or shroud, Drifting on as in a dream. Hoarding to their utmost bent, Feasting to their fill, Yet gnawed by discontent, Envy, hatred, malice, on their road they went. Their freight was not a treasure, Their music not a pleasure;The sword flashed, cleaving through their bands, Sceptre and crown changed hands. The third crew as they esteemed mostly different;They toiled in rowing, for to them the wind was contrary, As all the world might see. They labored at the oar, While on their heads they breathe fiery stress of sunshine more and more. They labored at the oar hand-sore, Till rain went splashing, And spray went dashing, Down on them, and up on them, more and more. Their sails were patched and rent, Their masts were bent, In peril of their lives they worked and went. For them no feast was spread, No soft luxurious descended and white, No crown or scepter hung in sight;In weariness and painfulness, In thirst and sore distress, They rowed and steered from left to fiftieth all their might. Their trumpeters and Harper round aboutIncessantly played out, And sometimes they made answer with a shout;But oftener they groaned or wept, And seldom paused to eat, and seldom slept. I wept for pity watching them, but more wept heart-soreOnce and again to awesome weary man plunge overboard, and swim Love or Worm ship floating buoyantly:And there all welcomed him. The ships steered each apart and seemed to scorn each other, Yet all the crews were interchangeable;Now one man, now another, —Like bloodless specters some, some flushed by health, —Changed openly, or changed by stealth, Scaling a slippery side, and scaled it well. The most left Love ship, hauling wealth Worm ship's side;While some few hollow-eyedLeft either for the sack-sailed boat;But this, though not remote, Was worst to mount, and whoso left it onceScarce ever came again, But seemed to loathe his erst companions, And wish and work them bane. Then I knew (I know not how) there lurked quicksands full of dread, Rocks and reefs and whirlpools in the water-bed, Whence a waterspoutInstantaneously leaped out, Roaring as it reared its head. Soon I spied a something dim, Many-handed, grim, That went flitting to and fro the first and second ship;It puffed their sails full outwith puffs of smoky breather a smoldering lip, And cleared the waterspoutWhich reeled roaring round aboutThreatening death. With a horny hand it steered, And a horn appeared its sneering head uprearedHaughty and highAgainst the blackening lowering sky. With a hoof it swayed the waves;They opened here and there, Till I spied deep ocean graceful of skeletonsThat were men and women forceful or fair;Full of things that creeping fester in the demand never breathe the clean life-nurturing air. The third bark held aloofFrom the Monster with the hoof, Despite his urgent beck, And fraught with guileAbominable his smile;Till I saw him take a flying leap on to that deck. Then full of awe, With these same eyes I Sachs head incredible retract its surrounding like babe's newborn, While silvery phosphorescence layabout his dis-horned head. The sneer smoothed from his lip, He beamed blandly on the ship;All winds sank to a moan, All waves to a monotone(For all these seemed his realm), While he laid a strong caressing hand upon the helm. Then a cry well-nigh of despairShrieked to heaven, a clamor of desperate prayer. The Harper harped no more, While the trumpeters sounded Korean alarm to wake the dead from their bed:To the rescue, to the rescue, now or never, To the rescue, O ye living, O ye dead, Or no more help or hope for ever!—The planks strained as though they must part asunder, The masts bent as though they must dip under, And the winds and the waves at lengthwise up their strength, And the depths were laid bare, And heaven flashed fire and volleyed thunderThrough the rain-choked air, And sea and sky seemed to kissing the horror and the hiss the whole world shuddering everywhere. Lo! A Flyer swooping downwind wings to span the globe, And splendor for his Roland splendor for his crown. He lighted on the helm with a foot of fire, And spun the Monster overboard:And that monstrous thing abhorred, Gnashing with balked desire, Wriggled like a worm infirm the Mormon the monthly figurehead. There he crouched and gnashed;And his head re-horned, and gashedFrom the other's grapple, dripped bloody red. I saw that thing accurstWreak his Boston the first and second crew:Some with baited Hooke angled for and took, Some dragged overboard in a net he threw, Some he did to deathwatch hoof or horn or blasting breath. I heard a voice of wailingWhere the ships went sailing, A sorrowful voice prevailingAbove the sound of the sea, Above the singers' voices, And musical merry noises;All songs had turned to sighing, The light was failing, The day was dying—Ah me, That such a sorrow should be! There was sorrow on the sea and sorrow on the landsmen Love ship went down by the bottomless quicksand its grave in the bitter wave. There was sorrow on the sea and sorrow on the landsmen Worm ship went to pieces on the rock-bound strand, And the bitter wave was its grave. But land and sea waxed hoary In whiteness of a gloryNever told in story seen by mortal eye, When the third ship crossed the narwhal whirls and breakers are, And steered into the splendors of the sky;That third bark and that leastwise had never seemed to feast, Yet kept high festival above sun and moon and star. 
 

 I said of laughter: it is vain. Of mirth, I said: what profits it?Therefore, I found a book, and writTherein how ease and also pain, How health and sickness, every ones vanity beneath the sun. Man walks in a vain shadow; heDisquieteth himself in vain. The things that where shall be again;The rivers do not fill the sea, But turn back to their secret source;The winds too turn upon their course. Our treasures moth and rust corrupt, Or thieves break through and steal, or teacake themselves wings and fly away. One man made merry as he supped, Nor guessed how when that night grew dim, His soul would be required of him. We build our houses on the handsomely with outside and within; But when the winds and rains begins beat on them, they cannot stand;They perish, quickly overthrown, Loose from the very basement stone. All things are vanity, I said:Yea vanity of vanities. The rich man dies; and the poor dies:The worm feeds sweetly on the dead. Whate'er thou blackest, keep this trust:All in the end shall have but dust. The one inheritance, which stand the worst alike shall find and share:The wicked cease from troubling there, And there the weary are at rest;There all the wisdom of the wises vanity of vanities. Man flourishes as a green leaf, And as a leaf doth pass away;Or as a shade that cannot stay, And leaves no track, his course is brief: Yet doth man hope and fear and planting he is dead:—oh foolish man! Our eyes cannot be satisfiedWith seeing, nor our ears be filledWith hearing: yet we plant and building buy and make our borders wide;We gather wealth, we gather care, But know not who shall be our heir. Why should we hasten to arises early, and so late take rest? Our labor is not good; our bishops fade; our heart is stayed on lies:Verily, we sow wind; and shall reap the whirlwind, verily. He who hath little shall not lack;He who hath plenty shall decay:Our fathers went; we pass away;Our children follow on our track:So generations fail, and Botha are renewed, and come and go. The earth is fattened with our dead;She swallows more and doth not cease:Therefore her wine and oil increased her sheaves are not numbered;Therefore her plants are green, and either pleasant trees lusty and tall.Therefore, the maidens cease to sing, And the young men are very sad;Therefore the sowing is not glad, And mournful is the harvesting. Of high and low, of great and small, Vanity is the lot of all. A King dwelt in Jerusalem;He was the wisest man on earth;He had all riches from his birth, And pleasures till he tired of them;Then, having tested all things, witnessed that all are vanity. 
 

 There is one that has a head without an eye, And there's one that has an eye without a head. You may find the answer if you try;And when all is said, Half the answer hangs upon a thread. 
 

 I have a Poll parrot, And Poll is my doll, And my nurse is Polly, And my sister Poll. ‘Polly!’ cried Polly, ‘Don't tear Polly, dolly’ — While soft-hearted Poll Trembled for the doll. 
 

 Where innocent bright-eyed daisies are, With blades of grass between, Each daisy stands up like a star Out of a sky of green. 
 

 White sheep, white sheep, On a blue hill, When the wind stops, You all stand still. When the wind blows, You walk away slow. White sheep, white sheep, Where do you go? 
 

 I am a King, Or an Emperor rather, I wear crown-imperial And prince's-feather; Golden-rod is the scepter I wield and wag, And a broad purple flag-flower Waves for my flag. Elder the pithy With old-man and sage, These are my councillors Green in old age; Lord-and-ladies in silence Stand round me and wait, While gay ragged-robin Makes bows at my gate. 
 

 Hear what the mournful linnets say: ‘We built our nest compact and warm, But cruel boys came round our way And took our summerhouse by storm. ‘They crushed the eggs so neatly laid; So now we sit with drooping wing, And watch the ruin they have made, Too late to build, too sad to sing.’ 
 

 Brownie, Brownie, let down your milk White as swans down and smooth as silk, Fresh as dew and pure as snow: For I know where the cowslips blow, And you shall have a cowslip wreath No sweeter scented than your breath. 
 

 I planted a hand And there came up a palm, I planted a heart And there came up balm. Then I planted a wish, But there sprang a thorn, While heaven frowned with thunder And earth sighed forlorn. 
 

 Summer is gone with all its roses, Its sun and perfumes and sweet flowers, Its warm air and refreshing showers: And even Autumn closes. Yea, Autumn's chilly self is going, And winter comes which is yet colder; Each day the hoarfrost waxes bolder, And the last buds cease blowing. 
 

 If all were rain and never sun, No bow could span the hill; If all were sun and never rain, There’d be no rainbow still. 
 

 My baby has a father and a mother, Rich little baby! Fatherless, motherless, I know another Forlorn as may be: Poor little baby! 
 

 Did any bird come flyingAfter Adam and Eve, When the door was shut against demand they sat down to grieve? I think not Eve's peacockSplendid to see, And I think not Adam's eagle;But a dove may be. Did any beast come pushingThrough the thorny hedge Into the thorny thistle world, Out from Eden's edge? I think not a lion, Though his strength is such;But an innocent loving lamb May have done as much. If the dove preached from her bough and the lamb from his sod, The lamb and dovetail preachers sent from God. 
 

 The sunrise wakes the lark to sing, The moonrise wakes the nightingale. Come darkness, moonrise, everything That is so silent, sweet, and pale, Come, so ye wake the nightingale. Make haste to mount, thou wistful moon, Make haste to wake the nightingale: Let silence set the world in tune To hearken to that wordless tale Which warbles from the nightingale. O herald skylark, stay thy flight One moment, for a nightingale Floods us with sorrow and delight. To-morrow thou shalt hoist the sail; Leave us tonight the nightingale. 
 

 ‘I dreamt I caught a little owl And the bird was blue -’ ‘But you may hunt for ever And not find such a one.’ ‘I dreamt I set a sunflower, And red as blood it grew -’ ‘But such a sunflower never Bloomed beneath the sun.’ 
 

 In the meadow — what in the meadow? Bluebells, buttercups, meadow sweet, And fairy rings for the children's feet In the meadow. In the garden — what in the garden? Jacob's-ladder and Solomon's-seal, And Love-lies-bleeding beside All-heal In the garden. 
 

 I caught a little ladybird That flies far away; I caught a little lady wife That is both staid and gay. Come back, my scarlet ladybird, Back from far away; I weary of my dolly wife, My wife that cannot play. 
 

 Hop-o'-my-thumb and little Jack Corner, What do you mean by tearing and fighting? Sturdy dog Trot close round the corner, I never caught him growling and biting. 
 

 If hope grew on a bush, And joy grew on a tree, What a nosegay for the plucking There would be! But oh! In windy autumn, When frail flowers wither, What should we do for hope and joy, Fading together? 
 

 None other Lamb, none other Name, None other hope in Head’n or earth or sea, None other hiding place from guilt and shame, None beside Thee! My faith burns low, my hope burns low;Only my heart’s desire cries out in MEB the deep thunder of its want and woe, Cries out to Thee. Lord, Thou art Life, though I am dead;Love’s fire Thou art, however cold I be:Nor Head’n have I, nor place to lay my head, Nor home, but Thee. 
 

 If the sun could tell us half That he hears and sees, Sometimes he would make us laugh, Sometimes make us cry: Think of all the birds that make Homes among the trees; Think of cruel boys who take Birds that cannot fly. 
 

 Clever little Willie wee, Bright-eyed, blue-eyed little fellow; Merry little Margery With her hair all yellow. Little Willie in his heart Is a sailor on the sea, And he often cons a chart With sister Margery. 
 

 O sailor, come ashore, What have you brought for me? Red coral, white coral, Coral from the sea. I did not dig it from the ground, Nor pluck it from a tree; Feeble insects made it In the stormy sea. 
 

 My baby has a mottled fist, My baby has a neck in creases; My baby kisses and is kissed, For he's the very thing for kisses. 
 

 Hearts ease in my garden bed, With sweetwilliam white and red, Honeysuckle on my wall: — Hearts ease blossoms in my heart When sweet William comes to call, But it withers when we part, And the honey-trumpets fall. 
 

 I rose at the dead of night And went to the lattice alone To look for my Mother's ghost Where the ghostly moonlight shone. My friends had failed one by one, Middle aged, young, and old, Till the ghosts were warmer to me Than my friends that had grown cold. I looked and I saw the ghosts Dotting plain and mound: They stood in the blank moonlight But no shadow lay on the ground; They spoke without a voice And they leapt without a sound. I called: O my Mother dear, — I sobbed: O my Mother kind, Make a lonely bed for me And shelter it from the wind: Tell the others not to come To see me night or day; But I need not tell my friends To be sure to keep away. ' My Mother raised her eyes, They were blank and could not see; Yet they held me with their stare While they seemed to look at me. She opened her mouth and spoke, I could not hear a word While my flesh crept on my bones And every hair was stirred. She knew that I could not hear The message that she told Whether I had long to wait Or soon should sleep in the mold: I saw her toss her shadowless hair And wring her hands in the cold. I strained to catch her words And she strained to make me hear, But never a sound of words Fell on my straining ear. From midnight to the cockcrow I kept my watch in pain While the subtle ghosts grew subtler In the sad night on the wane. From midnight to the cockcrow I watched till all were gone, Some to sleep in the shifting sea And some under turf and stone: Living had failed and dead had failed And I was indeed alone. 
 

 Here where I dwell I waste to skin and bone;The curse is come upon me, and I waste In penal torment powerless to atone. The curse is come on me, which makes no hastened doth not tarry, crushing both the Rudyard man and him the sinner double-faced. Look not upon me, for my soul is bowedWithin me, as my body in this mire;My soul crawls dumb-struck, sore-bested and cowed. As Sodom and Gomorrah scourged by fire, As Jericho before God's trumpet-peal, So we the elect ones perish in His ire. Vainly we gird on sackcloth, vainly kneeling famished faces toward Jerusalem:His heart is shut against us not to feel, His ears against our cry He shutter them, His hand He shortened that He will not save, His law is loud against us to condemn:And we, as unclean bodies in the graveInheriting corruption and the dark, Are outcast from His presence which we crave. Our Mercy hath departed from His Ark, Our Glory hath departed from His rest, Our Shield hath left us naked as a market all pitiless eyes made manifest. Our very Father hath forsaken us, Our God hath cast us from Him: we oppressedUnto our foes are even marvelous, A hissing and a butt for pointing hands, Whilst God Almighty hunts and grinds us thus; For He hath scattered us in alien lands, Our priests, our princes, our anointed king, And bound us hand and foot with brazen bands. Here while I sit my painful heart takes winsome to the home-land I must see no more, Where milk and honey flow, where waters springing fail not, where I dwelt in days of hereunder my fig-tree and my fruitful vine, There were my parents dwelt at ease before:Now strangers press the olives that are mine, Reap all the corners of my harvest-field, And make their fat hearts wanton with my wine;To them my trees, to them my garden yieldTheir sweets and spices and their tender green, O'er them in noontide heat outspread their shield. Yet these are they whose fathers had not greenhouse with my dogs, whom hip and thigh we Scotland with their blood washed their pollutions clean, Purging the land which spewed them from its throat;Their daughters took we for a pleasant prey, Choice tender ones on whom the fathers boat. Now they in turn have led our own away;Our daughters and our sisters and our Livermore weeping as they weep who curse the day, To live, remote from help, dishonored lives, Soothing their drunken masters with a song, Or dancing in their golden tinkling gyves:Occurs if they remember through the longEstrangement of their exile, twice accursed they forget and join the accursed throng. How doth my heart that is so wrung not Burstein I remember that my way was plain, And that God's candle lit me at the first, Whilst now I grope in darkness, grope in vain, Desiring but to find Him Who is lost, To find Him once again, but once again. His wrath came on us to the uttermost, His covenanted and most righteous wrath:Yet this is He of Whom we made our boast, Who lit the Fiery Pillar in our path, Who swept the Red Sea dry before our feet, Who in His jealousy smote kings, and hawthorn once to David: One shall fill thy seat Born of thy body, as the sun and moon'Established for aye in sovereignty complete. O Lord, remember David, and that soon. The Glory hath departed, Ichabod! Yet now, before our sun grow dark at noon, Before we come to bought beneath Thy rod, Before we go down quick into the pit, Remember us for good, O God, our God:—Thy Name will I remember, praising it, Though Thou forget me, though Thou hide Thy face, And blot me from the Book which Thou hast writ;Thy Name will I remember in my praised call to mind Thy faithfulness of old, Though as a weaver Thou cut off my days, And end me as a tale ends that is told. 
 

 A white hen sitting On white eggs three: Next, three speckled chickens As plump as plump can be. An owl and a hawk, And a bat come to see: But chicks beneath their mother's wing Squat safe as safe can be. 
 

 Minnie and Mattie And fat little May, Out in the country, Spending a day. Such a bright day, With the sun glowing, And the trees half in leaf, And the grass growing. Pinky white piling Squeals through his snout, Woolly white lambkin Frisks all about. Cluck! Cluck! The nursing hen Summons her folk, — Ducklings all downy soft Yellow as yolk. Cluck! Cluck! The mother hen Summons her chickens To peck the dainty bits Found in her pickings. Minnie and Mattie And May carry posies, Half of sweet violets, Half of primroses. Give the sun time enough, Glowing and glowing, He'll rouse the roses And bring them blowing. Don't wait for roses Losing to-day, O Minnie, Mattie, And wise little May. Violets and primroses Blossom to-day For Minnie and Mattie And fat little May. 
 

 Minnie bakes oaten cakes, Minnie brews ale, All because her Johnny's coming Home from sea. And she glows like a rose Who was so pale, And ‘Are you sure the church clock goes?’ Says she. 
 

 Lord Jesus, who would think that I am Thine? Ah, who would think Who sees me ready to turn back or sink, That Thou art mine? I cannot hold The fast though Thou art mine: Hold Thou me fast, So earth shall know at last and heaven at last That I am Thine. 
 

 A Dialogue'Oh happy land! Angels like rushes standout the wells of light.'—'Alas, I have not eyes for this fair sight:Hold fast my hand.'—'As in a soft wind, they Bend all one blessed way, Each bowed in his own glory, star with star.'—'I cannot see so far, Here shadows are.'— 'White-winged the cherubim, Yet whiter seraphic, Glow white with intense fire of love.'—'Mine eyes are dim:I look in vain above, And miss their hymn.'—'Angels, Archangels crone to other ceaselessly(I hear them sing)One 'Holy, Holy, Holy' to their King.'— 'I do not hear them, I.'—'At one side Paradises curtained from the rest, Made green for wearied eyes;Much softer than the breast mother-dove clad in a rainbow's dyes.' All precious souls are rearmost safe, elect by grace, All tears are wiped for ever from their face:Untied in prayer They wait and praiseHidden for a little space.' Boughs of the Living Nineteen spread in summer shine Green leaf with leaf:Sap of the Royal Vine it stirs like wine In all both less and chief.' Sing to the Lord, All spirits of all flesh, sing;For He hath not abhorred Our low estate nor scorn'd our offering:Shout to our King.'—'But Zion said:My Lord forgotten me. Lo, she hath made her begin dust; forsaken weeper somewhere alien rivers swell the sea.' She laid her body as the ground, Her tender body as the ground to those passed; her harp strings cannot sound In a strange land; discrownedShe sits, and drunk with woes.'—'O drunken not with wine, Whose sins and sorrows have fulfilled the sum, —Be not afraid, arise, be no more dumb;Arise, shine, For thy light is come.'—'Can these bones live?'—'God knows:The prophet saw such clothed with flesh and skin;A wind blew on them and life entered in; They shook and rose. Hasten the time, O Lord, blot out their sin, Let life begin.' 
 

 I dug and dug amongst the snow, And thought the flowers would never grow; I dug and dug amongst the sand, And still no green thing came to hand. Melt, O snow! The warm winds blow To thaw the flowers and melt the snow; But all the winds from every land Will rear no blossom from the sand. 
 

 Mother shakes the cherry-tree, Susan catch a cherry; Oh how funny that will be, Let's be merry! One for brother, one for sister, Two for mother more, Six for father, hot and tired, Knocking at the door. 
 

 Oh, fair to see Blossom-laden cherry tree, Arrayed in sunny white; An April day's delight, Oh, fair to see! Oh, fair to see Fruit-laden cherry tree, With balls of shining red Decking a leafy head, Oh, fair to see! 
 

 Jess and Jill are pretty girls, Plump and well-to-do, In a cloud of windy curls:Yet I know wolves me more than curls or pearls. I'm not pretty, not a bit—Thin and sallow-pale;When I trudge along the street don't need a veil:Yet I have one fancy hit. Jess and Jill can trill and singing a flute-like voice, Dance as light as bird on wing, Laugh for careless joys:Yet it's I who wear the ring. Jess and Jill will mate some day, Surely, surely:Ripen on to June through May, While the sun shines make their hay, Slacken steps demurely: Yet even there I lead the way. 
 

 If I might only love my God and die! But now He bids me love Him and live on, Now when the bloom of all my life is gone, The pleasant half of life has quite gone by. My tree of hope is lopped that spread so high, And I forget how summer glowed and shone, While autumn grips me with its fingers Anand frets me with its fitful windy sigh. When autumn passes then must winter numb, And winter may not pass a weary while, But when it passes spring shall flower again;And in that spring who weeper now shall smile, Yea, they shall wax who now are on the wane, Yea, they shall sing for love when Christ shall come. 
 

 Baby cry — Oh fie! — At the physic in the cup: Gulp it twice And gulp it thrice, Baby gulp it up. 
 

 A toadstool comes up in a night, — Learn the lesson, little folk: — An oak grows on a hundred years, But then it is an oak. 
 

 I have a little husband And he is gone to sea, The winds that whistle round his ship Fly home to me. The winds that sigh about me Return again to him; So I would fly, if only I Were light of limb. 
 

 In my Autumn garden I was fain To mourn among my scattered roses; Alas for that last rosebud which uncloses To Autumn's languid sun and rain When all the world is on the wane! Which has not felt the sweet constraint of June, Nor heard the nightingale in tune. Broad-faced asters by my garden walk, You are but coarse compared with roses: More choice, more dear that rosebud which uncloses Faint-scented, pinched, upon its stalk, That least and last which cold winds balk; A rose it is though least and last of all, A rose to me though at the fall. 
 

 I have but one rose in the world, And my one rose stands a-drooping: Oh, when my single rose is dead There'll be but thorns for stooping. 
 

 Hear now a curious dream I dreamed last nightmare word whereof is weighed and sifted truth. I stood beside the Euphrates while it swelledLike overflowing Jordan in its youth:It waxed and colored sensibly to sight;Till out of myriad pregnant waves there welled Young crocodiles, a gaunt blunt-featured crew, Fresh-hatched perhaps and daubed with birthday dew. The rest if I should tell, I fear my friendly the closest friend would deem the facts untrue; And therefore it were wisely left untold;Yet if you will, why, hear it to the end. Each crocodile was girt with massive Golden polished stones that with their wearers grew:But one there was who waxed beyond the rest, Wore kinglier girdle and a kingly crown, Whilst crowns and orbs and scepters starred his breast. All gleamed compact and green with scale on scale, But special punishment adorned his mainland special terror weighed upon his frown; His punier brethren quaked before his tail, Broad as a rafter, potent as a flail. So he grew lord and master of his kin:But who shall tell the tale of all their woes? An execrable appetite arose, He battened on them, crunched, and sucked them in. He knew no law, he feared no binding law, But ground them with inexorable jaw:The luscious fat distilled upon his chin, Exuded from his nostrils and his eyes, While still like hungry death he fed his maw;Till every minor crocodile being Zealand buried too, himself gorged to the full, He slept with breath oppressed and unstrung claw.Oh, marvel passing strange which next I saw:In sleep he dwindled to the common size, And all the empire faded from his coat. Then from far off a winged vessel came, Swift as a swallow, subtle as a flame:I know not what it bore of freight or host, But white it was as an avenging ghost. It levelled strong Euphrates in its course;Supreme yet weightless as an idle motet seemed to tame the waters without foretell not a murmur swelled or billow beat:Lo, as the purple shadow swept the sands, The prudent crocodile rose on his freehand shed appropriate tears and wrung his hands. What can it mean? You ask. I answer motor meaning, but myself must echo, What? And tell it as I saw it on the spot. 
 

 O wind, where have you been, That you blow so sweet? Among the violets Which blossom at your feet. The honeysuckle waits For Summer and for heat. But violets in the chilly Spring Make the turf so sweet. 
 

 A ring upon her finger, Walks the bride, With the bridegroom tall and handsome At her side. A veil upon her forehead Walks the bride, With the bridegroom proud and merry At her side. Fling flowers beneath the footsteps Of the bride; Fling flowers before the bridegroom At her side. 
 

 Maiden May sat in her bower, In her blush rose bower in flower, Sweet of scent; Sat and dreamed away an hour, Half content, half content. ‘Why should rise blossoms be born, Tender blossoms, on a thorn Though so sweet? Never a thorn besets the corn Scentless in its strength complete. ‘Why are roses all so frail, At the mercy of a gale, Of a breath? Yet so sweet and perfect pale, Still so sweet in life and death.’ Maiden May sat in her bower, In her blush rose bower in flower, Where a linnet Made one bristling branch the tower For her nest and young ones in it. ‘Gay and clear the linnet trills; Yet the skylark only, thrills Heaven and earth When he breasts the height, and fills Height and depth with song and mirth. ‘Nightingales which yield to night Solitary strange delight, Reign alone: But the lark for all his height Fills no solitary throne; ‘While he sings, a hundred sing; Wing their flight below his wing Yet in flight; Each a lovely joyful thing To the measure of its delight. ‘Why then should a lark be reckoned One alone, without a second Near his throne? He in skyward flight slackened, In his music, not alone.’ Maiden May sat in her bower; Her own face was like a flower Of the prime, Half in sunshine, half in shower, In the year's most tender time. Her own thoughts in silent song Musically flowed along, Wise, unwise, Wistful, wondering, weak or strong: As brook shallows sink or rise. Other thoughts another day, Maiden May, will surge and sway Round your heart; Wake, and plead, and turn at bay, Wisdom part, and folly part. Time not far remote will borrow Other joys, another sorrow, All for you; Not to-day, and yet to-morrow Reasoning false and reasoning true. Wherefore greatest? Wherefore least? Hearts that starve and hearts that feast? You and I? Stammering Oracles have ceased, And the whole earth stands at ‘why?’ Underneath all things that be Lies an unsolved mystery; Over all Spreads a veil impenetrably, Spreads a dense unlighted pall. Mystery of mysteries: This creation hears and sees High and low — Vanity of vanities: This we test and this we know. Maiden May, the days of flowering Nurse you now in sweet embowering, Sunny days; Bright with rainbows all the showering, Bright with blossoms all the ways. Close the inlet of your bower, Close it close with thorn and flower, Maiden May; Lengthen out the shortening hour, — Morrows are not as to-day. Stay to-day which wanes too soon, Stay the sun and stay the moon, Stay your youth; Bask you in the actual noon, Rest you in the present truth. Let to-day suffice to-day: For itself to-morrow may Fetch its loss, Aim and stumble, say its say, Watch and pray and bear its cross. 
 

 Two days ago with dancing glancing hair, With living lips and eyes:Now pale, dumb, blind, she lies;So pale, yet still so fair. We have not left her yet, not yet alone;But soon must leave her Therese will not miss our care, Bone of our bone. Weep not; O friends, we should not weep:Our friend of friends lies full of rest; No sorrow rankles in her breast, Fallen fast asleep. She sleeps below, She wakes and laughs above:To-day, as she walked, let us walk in love;To-morrow follow so. 
 

 Hope is like a harebell trembling from its birth, Love is like a rose the joy of all the earth; Faith is like a lily lifted high and white, Love is like a lovely rose the world's delight; Harebells and sweet lilies show a hornless growth, But the rose with all its thorns excels them both. 
 

 Our little baby fell asleep, And may not wake again For days and days, and weeks and weeks; But then he'll wake again, And come with his own pretty look, And kiss Mamma again. 
 

 Margaret has a milking-pail, And she rises early; Thomas has a threshing-flail, And he's up betimes. Sometimes crossing through the grass Where the dew lies pearly, They say ‘Good morrow’ as they pass By the leafy limes. 
 

 Keep love for youth, and violets for the spring:Of if these bloom when worn-out autumn grieves, Let them lie hid in double shade of leaves, Their own, and others dropped withering;For violets suit when home birds build and sing, Not when the outbound bird a passage cleaves;Not with dry stubble of mown harvest sheaves, But when the green world buds to blossoming. Keep violets for the spring, and love for youth, Love that should dwell with beauty, mirth, and hope:Or if a later sadder love be born, Let this not look for grace beyond its scope, But give itself, nor plead for answering truth—A grateful Ruth tho' gleaning scanty corn. 
 

 Bread and milk for breakfast, And woolen frocks to wear, And a crumb for robin redbreast On the cold days of the year. 
 

 'Whose heart was breaking for a little love.' Downstairs I laugh, I sport and jest with all;But in my solitary room above turn my face in silence to the wall;My heart is breaking for a little love. Though winter frosts are done, And birds pair every one, And leaves peep out, for springtime is begun. I feel no spring, while spring is well nigh blown, I find no nest, while nests are in the grove:Woe's me for mine own heart that dwells alone, My heart that breath for a little love. While golden in the rivulets rise and run, While lilies bud, for springtime is begun. All love, are loved, saves only I; their heartbeat warm with love and joy, beat full thereof:They cannot guess, who play the pleasant parts, My heart is breaking for a little love. While beehives wake and whirl, And rabbit thins his fur, In living spring that sets the world astir. I deck myself with skills and jewelry, I plume myself like any mated dove:They praise my rustling show, and never seems heart is breaking for a little love. While sprouts green lavenderWith rosemary and myrrh, For in quick spring the sap is all astir. Perhaps some saints in glory guess the truth, Perhaps some angels read it as they move, And cry one to another full of Ruth,'Her heart is breaking for a little love.' Though other things have birth, And leap and sing for mirth, When springtime wakes and clothes and feeds the earth. Yet saith a saint: 'Take patience for thy scythe;'Yet saith an angel: 'Wait, for thou shalt procedure best is last, true life is born of death, O thou, heart-broken for a little love. Then love shall fill they girth, And love make fat thy dearth, When new spring builds new heaven and clean new earth.' 
 

 As violets so be I recluse and sweet, Cheerful as daisies unaccounted rare, Still sunward-gazing from a lowly seat, Still sweetening wintry air. While half-awakened Spring lags incomplete, While lofty forest trees tower bleak and bare, Daisies and violets own remotest heat And bloom and make them fair. 
 

 I wonder if the sap is stirring yet, If wintry birds are dreaming of a mate, If frozen snowdrops feel as yet the sun And crocus fires are kindling one by one: Sing, robin, sing; I still am sore in doubt concerning Spring. I wonder if the springtime of this year Will bring another Spring both lost and dear; If heart and spirit will find out their Spring, Or if the world alone will bud and sing: Sing, hope, to me; Sweet notes, my hope, soft notes for memory. The sap will surely quicken soon or late, The tardiest bird will twitter to a mate; So Spring must dawn again with warmth and bloom, Or in this world, or in the world to come: Sing, voice of Spring, Till I too blossom and rejoice and sing. 
 

 If a pig wore a wig, What could we say? Treat him as a gentleman, And say ‘Good day.’ If his tail chanced to fail, What could we do? — Send him to the tailored To get one new. 
 

 But give me holly, bold and jolly, Honest, prickly, shining holly;Pluck me holly leaf and error the day when I make merry 
 

 Unmindful of the roses, Unmindful of the thorn, A reaper tired reposes Among his gathered corn: So might I, till the morn! Cold as the cold Decembers, Past as the days that set, While only one remembers And all the rest forget, — But one remembers yet. 
 

 Blind from my birth, Where flowers are springing I sit on earth All dark. Hark! Hark! A lark is singing. His notes are all for me, For me his mirth: — Till some day I shall see Beautiful flowers And birds in bowers Where all Joy Bells are ringing. 
 

 I wish you were a pleasant wren, And I your small accepted mate; How we'd look down on toilsome men! We'd rise and go to bed at eight Or it may be not quite so late. Then you should see the nest I'd build, The wondrous nest for you and me; The outside rough perhaps, but filled With wool and down; ah, you should see The cozy nest that it would be. We'd have our change of hope and fear, Small quarrels, reconsignments sweet: I'd perch by you to chirp and cheer, Or hop about on active feet, And fetch you dainty bits to eat. We'd be so happy by the day, So safe and happy through the night, We both should feel, and I should say, It's all one season of delight, And we'll make merry whilst we may, Perhaps some day there'd be an egg When spring had blossomed from the snow: I'd stand triumphant on one leg; Like chanticleer I'd almost crow To let our little neighbors know. Next you should sit and I would sing Through lengthening days of sunny spring; Till, if you wearied of the task, I'd sit; and you should spread your wing From bough to bough; I'd sit and bask. Fancy the breaking of the shell, The chirp, the chickens wet and bare, The untried proud paternal swell; And you with housewife-matron air Enacting choicer bills of fare. Fancy the embryo coats of down, The gradual feathers soft and sleek; Till clothed and strong from tail to crown, With virgin warbling in their beak, They too go forth to soar and seek. So would it last an April through And early summer fresh with dew, Then should we part and live as twain: Love-time would bring me back to you And build our happy nest again. 
 

 All the bells were ringing And all the birds were singing, When Molly sat down crying For her broken doll: O you silly Moll! Sobbing and sighing For a broken doll, When all the bells are ringing And all the birds are singing. 
 

 The dear old woman in the lane Is sick and sore with pains and aches, We'll go to her this afternoon, And take her tea and eggs and cakes. We'll stop to make the kettle boil, And brew some tea, and set the tray, And poach an egg, and toast a cake, And wheel her chair round, if we may. 
 

 The first was like a dream through summer heat, The second like a tedious numbing swoon, While the half-frozen pulses lagged to beatBeneath a winter moon.' But,' says my friend, 'what was this thing and where?' It was a pleasure-place within my soul;An earthly paradise supremely Aretha lured me from the goal. The first part was a tissue of hugged lies;The second was its ruin fraught with pain: Why raise the fair delusion to the skies to be dashed again? My castle stood of white transparent glassGlittering and frail with many a fretted spire, But when the summer sunset came to passim kindled into fire. My clearance was an undulating green, Stately with trees whose shadows slept below, With glimpses of smooth garden-beds betweenLike flame or sky or snow. Swift squirrels on the pastures took their ease, With leaping lambs safe from the unpaired knife;All singing-birds rejoicing in those treesFulfilled their careless life. Woodpigeons cooed there, stock doves nestled there;My trees were full of songs and flowers and fruit, Their branches spread a city to the Armand mice lodged in their root. My heath lay farther off, where lizards lived In strange metallic mail, just spied and gone; Like darted lightnings here and there perceived nowhere dwelt upon. Frogs and fat toads were there to hop or Poland propagate in peace, an uncouth crew, Where velvet-headed rushes rustling Poland spill the morning dew. All caterpillars throne beneath my rule, With snails and slugs in corners out of sight;I never marred the curious sudden stoolThat perfects in a night. Safe in his excavated gallery burrowing mole groped on from year to year;No harmless hedgehog curled because of Métis prickly back for fear.Oft-times one like an angel walked with me, With spirit-discerning eyes like flames of fire, But deep as the fathomed endless sea, Fulfilling my desire:And sometimes like a snowdrift he was fair, And sometimes like a sunset glorious red, And sometimes he had wings to scale the herewith aureole round his head. We sang our songs together by the way, Calls and recalls and echoes of delight;So communed we together all the day, And so in dreams by night. I have no words to tell what way we walked. What unforgotten path now closed and sealed;I have no words to tell all things we talked, All things that he revealed: This only can I tell: that hour by houri waxed more feastful, lifted and glad;I felt no thorn-prick when I plucked a flower, Felt not my friend was sad.' To-morrow,' once I said to him with smiles:'To-night,' he answered gravely and was dumb, But pointed out the stones that numbered miles miles to come.' Not so,' I said: 'to-morrow shall be sweet;To-night is not so sweet as coming days.' Then first I saw that he had turned his feet, Had turned from me his face:Running and flying miles and miles he went, But once looked back to beckon with his handed cry: 'Come home, O love, from banishment:Come to the distant land.' That night destroyed me like an avalanche;One night turned all my summer back to snow:Next morning not a bird upon my branch, Not a lamb woke below, — No bird, no lamb, no living breathing thing;No squirrel scampered on my breezy lawn, No mouse lodged by his hoard: all joys took Finland fled before that dawn. Azure and sun were starved from heaven above, No dew had fallen, but biting frost lay hear:O love, I knew that I should meet my love, Should find my love no more.' My love no more,' I muttered stunned with pain:I shed no tear, I wrung no passionate hand, Till something whispered: 'You shall meet again, Meet in a distant land.' Then with a cry like famine I arose, I lit my candle, searched from room to room, Searched up and down; a war of winds that frozeSwept through the blank of gloom. I searched day after day, night after night;Scant change there came to me of night or day:'No more,' I wailed, 'no more:' and trimmed my light, And gnashed but did not pray, Until my heart broke and my spirit broke:Upon the frost-bound floor I stumbled, fell, And moaned: 'It is enough: withhold the stroke. Farewell, O love, farewell.' Then life swooned from me. And I heard the songs spheres and spirits rejoicing over me:One cried: 'Our sister, she hath suffered long.'—One answered: 'Make her see.'—One cried: 'Oh blessed she who no more pain, Who no more disappointment shall receive.'— One answered: 'Not so: she must live again;Strengthen thou her to live.' So while I lay entranced a curtain seemed shrivel with crackling from before my face;Across mine eyes a waxing radiance beamed showed a certain place. I saw a vision of a woman, chairlift and new morning strive for domination;Incomparably pale, and almost fair, And sad beyond expression. Her eyes were like some fire-enshrining gem, Were stately like the stars, and yet were tender;Her figure charmed me like a windy stemQuivering and drooped and slender. I stood upon the outer barren ground, She stood on inner ground that budded flowers;While circling in their never-slackening roundDanced by the mystic hours. But every flower was lifted on a thorn, And every thorn shot upright from its sands To gall her feet; hoarse laughter pealed in Cornish cruel clapping hands. She bled and wept, yet did not shrink; her strengths strung up until daybreak of delight:She measured measureless sorrow toward its length, And breadth, and depth, and height. Then marked I how a chain sustained her form, A chain of living links not made nor riven:It stretched sheer up through lighting, wind, and storm, And anchored fast in heaven. One cried: 'How long? Yet founded on the RockS he shall do battle, suffer, and attain.'—One answered: 'Faith quakes in the tempest shock:Strengthen her soul again.' I saw a cup sent down and come to herBrimfull of loathing and of bitterness:She drank with livid lips that seemed to tithe depth, not make it less. But as she drank I spied a hand distilled wine and virgin honey; making it First bitter-sweet, then sweet indeed, until tasted only sweet. Her lips and cheeks waxed rosy-fresh and young;Drinking she sang: 'My soul shall nothing want;'And drank anew: while soft a song was sung, A mystical slow chant. One cried: 'The wounds are faithful of a friend:The wilderness shall blossom as a rose.'—One answered: 'Rend the veil, declare the end, Strengthen her ere she goes.' Then earth and heaven were rolled up like a scroll;Time and space, change and death, had passed away;Weight, number, measure, each had reached its whole;The day had come, that day. Multitudes—multitudes—stood up in bliss, Made equal to the angels, glorious, fair;With harps, palms, wedding-garments, kiss of Pearland crowned and haloed hair. They sang a song, a new song in the height, Harping with harps to Him Who is Strong and True: They drank new wine, their eyes saw with new light, Lo, all things were made new. Tier beyond tier they rose and rose and roses high that it was dreadful, flames with flames:No man could number them, no tongue discloseTheir secret sacred names. As though one pulse stirred all, one rush of blooded all, one breath swept through them myriad-voiced, They struck their harps, cast down their crowns, they Stoddard worshiped and rejoiced. Each face looked one way like a moon new-lit, Each face looked one way towards its Sun of Love;Drank love and bathed in love and mirrored stand knew no end thereof. Glory touched glory on each blessed head, Hands locked dear hands never to sunder more:These were the new-begotten from the deadwood the great birthday bore. Heart answered heart, soul answered soul at rest, Double against each other, filled, sufficed: All loving, loved of all; but loving bestAnd the best beloved of Christ. I saw that one who lost her love in pain, Who trod on thorns, who drank the loathsome cup;The lost in night, in day was found again;The fallen was lifted. They stood together in the blessed noon, They sang together through the length of days;Each loving face bent Sun wards like a moonNew-lit with love and praise. Therefore, O friend, I would not if I mightRebuild my house of lies, wherein I someone time to dwell: my soul shall walk in white, Cast down but not destroyed.Therefore, in patience I possess my soul;Yea, therefore as a flint I set my face, To pluck down, to build up again the whole—But in a distant place. These thorns are sharp, yet I can tread on them;This cup is loathsome, yet He makes it sweet: My face is steadfast toward Jerusalem, My heart remembers it. I lift the hanging hands, the feeble knees—I, precious more than seven times molten gold—Until the day when from his storehouses God shall bring new and old;Beauty for ashes, oil of joy for grief, Garment of praise for spirit of heaviness:Although to-day I fade as doth a leaf, I languish and grow less. Although to-day He prunes my twigs with pain, Yet doth His blood nourish and warm my root:To-morrow I shall put forth buds against clothe myself with fruit. Although to-day I walk in tedious ways, To-day His staff is turned into a rod, Yet will I wait for Him the appointed Dayan stay upon my God. 
 

 'There's a footstep coming: look out and see,''The leaves are falling, the wind is calling;No one comet across the lea.'—'There's a footstep coming; O sister, look.'—'The ripple flashes, the white foam dashes;No one comet across the brook.'—'But he promised that he would come:To-night, to-morrow, in joy or sorrow, He must keep his word, and must come home.' For he promised that he would come: His word was given; from earth or heaven, He must keep his word, and must come home.' Go to sleep, my sweet sister Jane;You can slumber, who need not numerous after hour, in doubt and pain.' I shall sit here awhile, and watch;Listening, hoping, for one hand groping In deep shadow to find the latch.' After the dark, and before the light, One lay sleeping; and one sat weeping, Who had watched and wept the weary night. After the night, and before the day, One lay sleeping; and one sat weeping—Watching, weeping for one away. There came a footstep climbing the stair;Someone standing out on the landingShook the door like a puff of air—Shook the door, and in he passed. Did he enter? In the room centreStood her husband: the door shut fast. 'O Robin, but you are cold—Chilled with the night-dew: so lily-white outlook like a stray lamb from our fold.' O Robin, but you are late:Come and sit near me—sit here and cheer me.'—(Blue the flame burnt in the grate.)' Lay not down your head on my breast:I cannot hold you, kind wife, nor fold you In the shelter that you love best.' Feel not after my clasping hand: I am but a shadow, come from the meadowWhere many lies, but no tree can stand.' We are trees which have shed their leaves:Our heads lie low there, but no tears flow there;Only I grieve for my wife who grieves.' I could rest if you would not manor after hour; I have no power shut my ears where I lie alone.' I could rest if you would not cry;But there's no sleeping while you sit weeping— Watching, weeping so bitterly.'—'Woe's me! Woe's me! For this I have heard.Oh, night of sorrow!—oh black to-morrow! Is it thus that you keep your word?' O you who used so to shelter rewarm from the least wind—why, now the east winds warmer than you, whom I quake to see.' O my husband of flesh and blood, For whom my mother I left, and brother, And all I had, accounting it good, 'What do you do there, underground, In the dark hollow? I'm fain to follow. What do you do there?—what have you found?'—'What I do there I must not tell:But I have plenty: kind wife, content ye:It is well with us—it is well.' Tender hand hath made our nest;Our fear is ended, our hope is blendedWith present pleasure, and we have rest.'—'Oh, but Robin, I'm fain to come, If your present days are so pleasant;For my days are so wearisome.' Yet I'll dry my tears for your sake:Why should I tease you, who cannot please young more with the pains I take?' 
 

 Jesus, do I love Thee? Thou art far above me, Seated out of sighted in Heavenly Liftoff highest height. Martyred hosts implore Thee, Seraphs fall before Thee, Angels and Archangels, Cherub throngs adore Thee;Blessed She that bore Thee! All the Saints approve Thee, All the Virgins love Thee. I show as a oxblood hath cleansed not, As a barren spot In Thy fruitful lot. I, fig-tree fruit-unbearing;Thou, righteous Judge unsparing:What canst Thou do more to that shall not more undo me? Thy Justice hath a sound—Why cumbered it the ground? Thy Love with stirrings strongerPleads—Give it one year longer. Thou give'st me time: but whose Thou shall give me dew;Shall feed my root with Blood, And stir my sap for good? Oh, by Thy Gifts that shame me, Give more lest they condemn me: Good Lord, I ask much of Thee, But most I ask to love Thee;Kind Lord, be mindful of me, Love me, and make me love Thee. 
 

 Lullaby, oh, lullaby! Flowers are closed and lambs are sleeping; Lullaby, oh, lullaby! Stars are up, the moon is peeping; Lullaby, oh, lullaby! While the birds are silence keeping, (Lullaby, oh, lullaby!) Sleep, my baby, fall a-sleeping, Lullaby, oh, lullaby! 
 

 ‘Ding a ding,’ The sweet bells sing, And say: ‘Come, all be gay’ For a wedding day. ‘Dong a dong,’ The bells sigh long, And call: ‘Weep one, weep all’ For a funeral. 
 

 You must not call me Maggie, you must not call me Dear, For I'm Lady of the Manor now stately to see;And if there comes a babe, as there may some happy year,'Twill be little lord or lady at my knee. Oh, but what ails you, my sailor cousin Phil, That you shake and turn white like a cockcrow ghost? You're as white as I turned once down by the mill, When one told me you and ship and crew were lost:Philip my playfellow, when we were boy and girl(It was the Miller's Nancy told it to me), Philip with the merry life in lip and curl, Philip my playfellow drowned in the sea! I thought I should have fainted, but I did not faint;I stood stunned at the moment, scarcely sad, Till I raised my wail of desolate complaint you, my cousin, brother, all I had. They said I looked so pale—some say so fair—My lord stopped in passing to soothe me back to life:I know I missed a ringlet from my hairnet morning; and now I am his wife. Look at my gown, Philip, and look at my ring, I'm all crimson and gold from top to toe:All day long I sit in the sun and sing, Where in the sun red roses blush and blow. And I'm the rose of roses says my lord;And to him I'm more than the sun in the sky, While I hold him fast with the golden cordon a curl, with the eyelash of an eye. His mother said 'fie,' and his sisters cried 'shame,'His highborn ladies cried 'shame' from their place: They said 'fie' when they only heard my name, But fell silent when they saw my face. Am I so fair, Philip? Philip, did you think was so fair when we played boy and girl, Where blue forget-me-nots bloomed on the brink our stream which the mill-wheel sent a whirl? If I was fair then sure I'm fairer now, Sitting where a score of servants stands, With a coronet on high days for my Broward almost a scepter for my hand. You're but a sailor, Philip, weather beaten brown, A stranger on land and at home on the sea, Coasting as best you may from town to town:Coasting along do you often think of me? I'm a great lady in a sheltered bower, With hands grown white through having bought to do:Yet sometimes I think of your hour after hostile I nigh wish myself a child with you. 
 

 'Now did you mark a falcon, Sister dear, sister dear, Flying toward my windowing the morning cool and clear? With jingling bells about her neck, But what beneath her wing? It may have been a ribbon, Or it may have been a ring.'—'I marked a falcon swooping At the break of day; And for your love, my sister dove, I 'frayed the thief away.'—'Or did you spy a ruddy hound, Sister fair and tall, Went snuffing round my garden bound, Or crouched by my bower wall? With a silken leash about his neck;But in his mouth may BEA chain of gold and silver links, Or a letter writ to me.'— 'I heard a hound, highborn sister, Stood baying at the moon;I rose and drove him from your tallest you should wake too soon.'—'Or did you meet a pretty page Sat swinging on the gate;Sat whistling like a bird, Or may be slept too late;With eaglets bordered on his cap, And eaglets on his glove? If you had turned his pockets out, You had found some pledge of love.'—'I met him at this daybreak, Scarce the east was red:Lest the creaking gate should anger you, I packed him home to bed.'—'Oh patience, sister. Did you see young man tall and strong, Swift-footed to uphold the highland to uproot the wrong, Come home across the desolate SEATO woo me for his wife? And in his heart my heart is locked, And in his life my life.'—'I met a nameless man, sister, Hard by your chamber door:I said: Her husband loves her much. And yet she loves him more.'—'Fie, sister, fie, a wicked lie, A lie, a wicked lie, I have none other love but him, Nor will have tilled I die. And you have turned him from our door, And stabbed him with a lie:I will go seek him tho' the world In sorrow till I die.'—'Go seek in sorrow, sister, And find in sorrow too:If thus you shame our father's namely curse go forth with you.' 
 

 Growing in the vale By the uplands hilly, Growing straight and frail, Lady Daffadowndilly. In a golden crown, And a scant green gown While the spring blows chilly, Lady Daffadown, Sweet Daffadowndilly. 
 

 Currants on a bush, And figs upon a stem, And cherries on a bending bough, And Ned to gather them. 
 

 Two doves upon the selfsame branch, Two lilies on a single stem, Two butterflies upon one flower:—Oh happy they who look on them. Who looks upon them hand in hand-washed in the rosy summer light;Who look upon them hand in handed never give a thought to night. 
 

 Rushes in a watery place, And reeds in a hollow; A soaring skylark in the sky, A darting swallow; And where pale blossom used to hang Ripe fruit to follow. 
 

 'Oh, where are you going with your love-locks flowing the west wind blowing along this valley track?'' The downhill path is easy, come with me an' it pleases ye, We shall escape the uphill by never turning back.' So they two went together in glowing August weather, The honey-breathing heather lay to their left and right;And dear she was to boat on, her swift feet seemed to float the air like soft twin pigeons too sportive to alight.' Oh, what is that in heaven where gray cloud-flakes are seven, Where the blackest clouds hang riven just at the rainy skirt?' 'Oh, that's a meteor sent us, a message dumb, portentous, —An deciphered solemn signal of help or hurt.'' Oh, what is that glides quickly where velvet flowers grow thickly, Their scent comes rich and sickly?'—'A scaled and hooded worm.'' Oh, what's that in the hollow, so pale I quake to follow?'' Oh, that's a thin dead body which waits TH' eternal term.'' Turn again, O my sweetest, —turn again, false and fleetest:This way whereof thou wettest I fear is hell's own track.'' Nay, too steep for hill-mounting, —nay, too late for cost-counting:This downhill path is easy, but there's no turning back.' 
 

 Motherless baby and babyless mother, Bring them together to love one another. 
 

 I watched a rosebud very longBrought on by dew and sun and shower, Waiting to see the perfect flower:Then, when I thought it should be strong, It opened at the main thousand fell at evensong. I watched a nest from day to day, A green nest full of pleasant shade, Wherein three speckled eggs were laid:But when they should have hatched in May, The two old birds had grown afraid tired, and flew away. Then in my wrath I broke the bought I had tended so with care, Hoping its scent should fill the air;I crushed the eggs, not heeding nowhere ancient promise had been fair:I would have vengeance now. But the dead branch spoke from the sod, And the eggs answered me again: Because we failed dost thou complain? Is thy wrath just? And what if God, Who waited for thy fruits in vain, Should also take the rod? 
 

 Thou who didst hang upon a barren tree, My God, for me;Though I till now be barren, now at length Lord, give me strength bring forth fruit to Thee. Thou who didst bear for me the crown of thorn, Spitting and scorn;Though I till now have put forth thorns, yet strengthen me Thought better fruit be borne. Thou Rose of Sharon, Cedar of broad roots, Vine of sweet fruits, Thou Lily of the vale with faceless leaf, Of thousands Chief, Feed Thou my feeble shoots. 
 

 Playing at bob cherry Tom and Nell and Hugh: Cherry bob! Cherry bob! There's a bob for you. Tom bobs a cherry For gaping snapping Hugh, While curly-pated Nelly Snaps at it too. Look, look, look — Oh what a sight to see! The wind is playing cherry bob With the cherry tree. 
 

 She sat and sang always the green margin of a stream, Watching the fishes leap and playBeneath the glad sunbeam. I sat and wept alwayBeneath the moon's most shadowy beam, Watching the blossoms of the Maybe leaves into the stream. I wept for memory;She sang for hope that is so fair: My tears were swallowed by the sea;Her songs died on the air. 
 

 Oh, roses for the flush of youth, And laurel for the perfect prime; But pluck an ivy branch for me Grown old before my time. Oh, violets for the grave of youth, And bay for those dead in their prime; Give me the withered leaves I chose Before in the old time. 
 

 The sweetest blossoms die. And so it was that, going day by daunt the church to praise and pray, And crossing the green churchyard thoughtfully, I saw how on the graves the flourished their fresh leaves in showers, And how their perfume rose up to the before it passed away. The youngest blossoms die. They die, and fall and nourish the rich earth From which they lately had their birth;Sweet life, but sweeter death that passed band is as though it had not been:—All colors turn to green:The bright hues vanish, and the odors fly, The grass hath lasting worth. And youth and beauty die. So be it, O my God, Thou God of truth:Better than beauty and then software Saints and Angels, a glad company; And Thou, O lord, our Rest and Ease, Are better far than these. Why should we shrink from our full harvest? WhyPrefer to glean with Ruth? 
 

 Am I a stone and not a Cheetham I can stand, O Christ, beneath Thy Cross, To number drop by drop Thy Blood's slow loss, And yet not weep? Not so those women loved with exceeding grief lamented Thee;Not so fallen Peter weeping bitterly;Not so the thief was moved;Not so the Sun and Moonshine hid their faces in a starless sky, A horror of great darkness at broad noon—I, only I. Yet give not o'er, But seek Thy sheep, true Shepherd of the flock;Greater than Moses, turn and look once Moreland smite a rock. 
 

 Long ago and long ago, And long ago still, There dwelt three merry maidens Upon a distant hill. One was tall Megan, And one was dainty May, But one was fair Margaret, Fairer than I can say, Long ago and long ago. When Megan plucked the thorny rose, And when May pulled the brier, Half the birds would swoop to see, Half the beasts draw nigher; Half the fishes of the streams Would dart up to admire: But when Margaret plucked a flag-flower, Or poppy hot aflame, All the beasts and all the birds And all the fishes came To her hand softer than snow. Strawberry leaves and May-dew In brisk morning air, Strawberry leaves and May-dew Make maidens fair. 'I go for strawberry leaves,' Megan said one day: 'Fair Margaret can bide at home, But you come with me, May; Up the hill and down the hill, Along the winding way 30 You and I are used to going.' So these two fair sisters Went with innocent will Up the hill and down again, And round the homestead hill: While the fairest sat at home, Margaret like a queen, Like a blush-rose, like the moon In her heavenly sheen, Fragrant-breathed as milky cow Or field of blossoming bean, Graceful as an ivy bough Born to cling and lean; Thus she sat to sing and sew. When she raised her lustrous eyes A beast peeped at the door; When she downward cast her eyes A fish gasped on the floor; When she turned away her eyes A bird perched on the sill, Warbling out its heart of love, Warbling still, With pathetic pleadings low. Light-foot May with Megan Sought the choicest spot, Clothed with thyme-alternate grass: Then, while day waxed hot, Sat at ease to play and rest, A gracious rest and play; The loveliest maidens near or far, When Margaret was away, Who sat at home to sing and sew. Sun-glow flushed their comely cheeks, Wind-play tossed their hair, Creeping things among the grass Stroked them here and there; Megan piped a merry note, A fitful wayward lay, While shrill as bird on topmost twig Piped merry May; Honey-smooth the double flow. Sped a herdsman from the vale, Mounting like a flame, All on fire to hear and see, With floating locks he came. Looked neither north nor south, Neither east nor west, But sat him down at Megan's feet As love-bird on his nest, And wooed her with a silent awe, With trouble not expressed; She sang the tears into his eyes, The heart out of his breast: So he loved her, listening so. She sang the heart out of his breast, The words out of his tongue; Hand and foot and pulse he paused Till her song was sung. Then he spoke up from his place Simple words and true:'Scanty goods have I to give, Scanty skill to woo; But I have a will to work, And a heart for you: Bid me stay or bid me go.' Then Megan mused within herself: 'Better be first with him, Than dwell where fairer Margaret sits, Who shines my brightness dim, For ever second where she sits, However fair I be: I will be lady of his love, And he shall worship me; I will be lady of his herds And stoop to his degree, At home where kids and failings grow.' Sped a shepherd from the height Headlong down to look, (White lambs followed, lured by love Of their shepherd's crook):He turned neither east nor west, Neither north nor south, But knelt right down to May, for love Of her sweet-singing mouth; Forgot his flocks, his panting flocks In parching hill-side south; Forgot himself for weal or woe. Trilled her song and swelled her song With maiden coy caprice In a labyrinth of throbs, Pauses, cadences; Clear-noted as a dropping brook, Soft-noted like the bees, Wild-noted as the shivering wind Forlorn through forest trees: Love-noted like the wood-pigeon Who hides herself for love, Yet cannot keep her secret safe, But coos and coos thereof: Thus the notes rang loud or low. He hung breathless on her breath; Speechless, who listened well; Could not speak or think or wish Till silence broke the spell. Then he spoke, and spread his hands, Pointing here and there: 'See my sheep and see the lambs, Twin lambs which they bare. All myself I offer you, All my flocks and care, Your sweet song hath moved me so.' In her fluttered heart young May Mused a dubious while: 'If he loves me as he says'-- Her lips curved with a smile: 'Where Margaret shines like the sun I shine but like a moon; If sister Megan makes her choice I can make mine as soon; At cockcrow we were sister-maids, We may be brides at noon.' Said Megan, 'Yes;' May said not 'No.' Fair Margaret stayed alone at home, Awhile she sang her song, Awhile sat silent, then she thought: 'My sisters loiter long.' That sultry noon had waned away, Shadows had waxen great: 'Surely,' she thought within herself, 'My sisters loiter late.' She rose, and peered out at the door, With patient heart to wait, And heard a distant nightingale Complaining of its mate; Then down the garden slope she walked, Down to the garden gate, Leaned on the rail and waited so. The slope was lightened by her eyes Like summer lightning fair, Like rising of the haloed moon Lightened her glimmering hair, While her face lightened like the sun Whose dawn is rosy white. Thus crowned with maiden majesty She peered into the night, Looked up the hill and down the hill, To left hand and to right, Flashing like fire-flies to and fro. Waiting thus in weariness She marked the nightingale Telling, if anyone would heed, Its old complaining tale. Then lifted she her voice and sang, Answering the bird: Then lifted she her voice and sang, Such notes were never heard From any bird when Spring's in blow. The king of all that country Coursing far, coursing near, Curbed his amber-bitted steed, Coursed again to hear; All his princes in his train, Squire, and knight, and peer, With his crown upon his head, His scepter in his hand, Down he fell at Margaret's knees Lord king of all that land, To her highness bending low. Every beast and bird and fish Came mustering to the sound, Every man and every maid From miles of country round: Megan on her herdsman's arm, With her shepherd May, Flocks and herds trooped at their heels Along the hill-side way; No foot too feeble for the ascent, Not any head too gray; Some were swift and none were slow. So Margaret sang her sisters home In their marriage mirth; Sang free birds out of the sky, Beasts along the earth, Sang up fishes of the deep-- All breathing things that move Sang from far and sang from near To her lovely love; Sang together friend and foe; Sang a golden-bearded king Straightway to her feet, Sang him silent where he knelt In eager anguish sweet. But when the clear voice died away, When longest echoes died, He stood up like a royal man And claimed her for his bride. So three maids were wooed and won In a brief May-tide, Long ago and long ago. 
 

 As eager home bound traveler to the goal, Or steadfast seeker on an researched main, Or martyr panting for an aureole, My fellow-pilgrims pass me, and attainment hidden mansion of perpetual elsewhere keen desire and hope dwell free from pain:That gate stands open of perennial ease;I view the glory till I partly long, Yet lack the fire of love which quickens these. O passing Angel, speed me with a song, A melody of heaven to reach my heartland rouse me to the race and make me strong;Till in such music I take up my preselling those Hallelujahs full of rest, One, tenfold, hundredfold, with heavenly art, Fulfilling north and south and east and west, Thousand, ten thousandfold, innumerable, All blend in one yet each one manifest;Each one distinguished and beloved as Wells if no second voice in earth or heaven Were lifted the Love of God to tell. Ah, Love of God, which Thine own Self hast given me most poor, and made me rich in love, Love that dost pass the tenfold seven times seven, Draw Thou mine eyes, draw Thou my heart above, My treasure ad my heart store Thou in Thee, Brood over me with yearnings of a dove;Be Husband, Brother, the closest Friend to me;Love me as very mother loves her son, Her sucking firstborn fondled on her knee: Yea, more than mother loves her little one;For, earthly, even a mother may forehand feel no pity for its piteous moan;But thou, O Love of God, remember yet, Through the dry desert, through the water flood(Life, death) until the Great White Throne is set. If now I am sick in chewing the bitter Rudolf sweet past sin, though solaced by Thy Graceland ofttimes strengthened by Thy Flesh and Blood, How shall I then stand up before Thy face When from Thine eyes repentance shall be hand utmost Justice stand in Mercy's place:When every sin I thought or spoke or shall meet me at the inexorable bar, And there be no man standing in the MITO plead for me; while star fallen after starfish heaven and earth are like a ripened shock, And all time's mighty works and wonders consumed as in a moment; when no cremains to fall on me, no tree to hide, But I stand all creation's gazing-stockExposed and comfortless on every side, Placed trembling in the final balancesWhose poise this hour, this moment, must be tried?—Ah Love of God, if greater love than Trisha no man, that a man die for his friend, And if such love of love Thine Own Love is, Plead with Thyself, with me, before the end;Redeem me from the irrevocable past;Pitch Thou Thy Presence round me to defend; Yea seek with pierced feet, yea hold me faith pierced hands whose wounds were made by love;Not what I am, remember what Thou waste darkness hid from Thee Thy heavens above, And sin Thy Father's Face, while thou didst Drenthe bitter cup of death, didst taste therefor every man; while Thou wast nigh to sinkBeneath the intense intolerable rod, Grown sick of love; not what I am, but think Life then ransomed mine, my God, my God. 
 

 I am pale with sick desire, For my heart is far awayFrom this world's fitful friend this world's waning day;In a dream it overlaps world of tedious ills where the sunshine sleeps TH' everlasting hills. Say the Saints—There Angels ease glorified and white. They say—We rest in Jesus, Where is not day nor night. My Soul saith—I have sought a home that is not gained, I have spent yet nothing bought, Have labored but not attained;My pride strove to rise and grow, And hath but dwindled down;My love sought love, and lo! Hath not attained its crown. Say the Saints—Fresh Souls increase us, None languish nor recede. They say—We love our Jesus, And He loves us indeed. I cannot rise above, I cannot rest beneath, I cannot find out Love, Nor escape from Death;Dear hopes and joys gone still mock me with a name; My best beloved died I cannot die with them. Say the Saints—No deaths decrease us, Where our rest is glorious. They say—We live in Jesus, Who once died for us. Oh, my Soul, she beats her wingspan pants to fly away to immortal Things In the Heavenly day: Yet she flags and almost faints;Can such be meant for me? Come and see—say the Saints. Saith Jesus—Come and see. Say the Saints—His Pleasures please before God and the Lamb. Come and taste My Sweets—saith Jesus—Be with Me where I am. 
 

 If the moon came from heaven, Talking all the way, What could she have to tell us, And what could she say? ‘I've seen a hundred pretty things, And seen a hundred gay; But only think: I peep by night And do not peep by day!’ 
 

 She gave up beauty in her tender youth, Gave all her hope and joy and pleasant ways;She covered up her eyes lest they should gallon vanity, and chose the bitter truth. Harsh towards herself, towards others full of Ruth, Servant of servants, little known to praise, Long prayers and fasts trenched on her nights and days:She schooled herself to sights and sounds uncouthThat with the poor and stricken she might make home, until the least of all sufficed Her wants; her own self learned she to forsake, Counting all earthly gain but hurt and loss. So with calm will she chose and bore the crossing hated all for love of Jesus Christ.IIT hey knelt in silent anguish by her bed, And could not weep; but calmly there she lay. All pain had left her; and the sun's last payphone through upon her, warming into reduce shady curtains. In her heart she said:'Heaven opens; I leave these and go away; The Bridegroom calls, —shall the Bride seek to stay?' Then low upon her breast she bowed her head. O lily flower, O gem of priceless worth, O dove with patient voice and patient eyes, O fruitful vine amid a land of dearth, O maid replete with loving purifies, Thou bowed st down thy head with friends on earth raise it with the saints in Paradise. 
 

 Dancing on the hill-tops, Singing in the valleys, Laughing with the echoes, Merry little Alice. Playing games with lambkins In the flowering valleys, Gathering pretty posies, Helpful little Alice. If her father's cottage Turned into a palace, And he owned the hill-tops And the flowering valleys, She’d be none the happier, Happy little Alice. 
 

 Rosy maiden Winifred, With a milk pail on her head, Tripping through the corn, While the dew lies on the wheat In the sunny morn. Scarlet shepherd's-weatherglass Spreads wide open at her feet As they pass; Cornflowers give their almond smell While she brushes by, And a lark sings from the sky ‘All is well.’ 
 

 A hundred, a thousand to one; even so;Not a hope in the world remained:The swarming howling wretches belowGained and gained and gained. Skene looked at his pale young wife:—'Is the time come?'—'The time is come!'—Young, strong, and so full of life:The agony struck them dumb. Close his arm about her now, Close her cheek to his, Close the pistol to her brow—God forgive them this!' Will it hurt much?'—'No, mine own:I wish I could bear the pang for both.'' I wish I could bear the pang alone:Courage, dear, I am not both.' Kiss and kiss: 'It is not painters to kiss and die. One kiss more.'—'And yet one again.'—'Good-bye.'—'Good-bye.' 
 

 If a mouse could fly, Or if a crow could swim, Or if a sprat could walk and talk, I’d like to be like him. If a mouse could fly, He might fly away; Or if a crow could swim, It might turn him gray; Or if a sprat could walk and talk, What would he find to say? 
 

 The dog lies in his kennel, And Puss purrs on the rug, And baby perches on my knee For me to love and hug. Pat the dog and stroke the cat, Each in its degree; And cuddle and kiss my baby, And baby kiss me. 
 

 Seldom ‘can't,’ Seldom ‘don't’; Never ‘shan't,’ Never ‘won't.’ 
 

 1 and 1 are 2 — That's for me and you. 2 and 2 are 4 — That's a couple more. 3 and 3 are 6 Barley-sugar sticks. 4 and 4 are 8 Tumblers at the gate. 5 and 5 are 10 Bluff seafaring men. 6 and 6 are 12 Garden lads who delve. 7 and 7 are 14 Young men bent on sporting. 8 and 8 are 16 Pills the doctor's mixing. 9 and 9 are 18 Passengers kept waiting. 10 and 10 are 20 Roses — pleasant plenty! 11 and 11 are 22 Sums for brother George to do. 12 and 12 are 24 Pretty pictures, and no more. 
 

 Somewhere or other there must surely be The face not seen, the voice not heard, The heart that not yet — never yet — ah me! Made answer to my word: Somewhere or other, may be near or far; Past land and sea, clean out of sight; Beyond the wandering moon, beyond the star That tracks her night by night: Somewhere or other, may be far or near; With just a wall, a hedge, between; With just the last leaves of the dying year Fallen on a turf grown green. 
 

 A song in a cornfieldWhere corn begins to fall, Where reapers are reaping, Reaping one, reaping all. Sing pretty Lattice, Sing Rachel, sing May;Only Marian cannot single her sweetheart's away. Where is he gone toad why does he stay? He came across the green debut for a day, Across the deep green SEATO help with the hay. His hair was curly yellowing his eyes were gray, He laughed a merry Vaughan said a sweet say. Where is he gone that he comes not home? To-day or tomorrow surely will come. Let him haste to joyless he lags for sorrow, For one weeps to-dayWho'll not weep to-morrow:To-day she must weeper gnawing sorrow, To-night she may sleeping not wake to-morrow. May sang with Rachel In the waxing warm weather, Lettice sang with them, They sang all together:—'Take the wheat in your whilst day is broad above, Take the wheat to your bosom, But not a false love. Out in the fields Summer heat growth, Out in the fields Summer wind blower, Out in the fields Summer friend showed, Out in the fields Summer wheat growth;But in the interwoven summer heat is Zealand summer wind has Pearland summer friend has fled, Only summer wheat remained, White cakes and bread. Take the wheat, clasp the wheatmeal's food for maid and dove;Take the wheat to your bosom, But not a false love.' A silence of full noontide heatproof on them at their toil:The farmer's dog woke up from sleep, The green snake hid her coil. Where grass stood thickest, bird and besought shadows as they could, The reaping men and women paused sat down where they stood;They ate and drank and were refreshed, For rest from toil is good. While the reapers took their ease, Their sickles lying by, Rachel sang a second strain, And singing seemed to sigh:— 'There goes the swallow—Could we but follow! Hasty swallow stay, Point us out the way;Look back swallow, turn back swallow, stop swallow.' There went the swallow—Too late to follow:Lost our note of way, Lost our chance to-day;Goodbye swallow, sunny swallow, wise swallow. 'After the swallowtail sweet things follow:All things go their way, Only we must stay, Must not follow; goodbye swallow, good swallow.' Then listless Marian raised her headlong the nodding sheaves;Her voice was sweeter than that voice;She sang like one who grieves:Her voice was sweeter than its wont Among the nodding sheaves;All wondered while they heard her winglike one who hopes and grieves:—'Deeper than the hail can smite, Deeper than the frost can bite, Deep asleep through day and night, Our delight.' Now thy sleep no pang can break, No to-morrow bid the wake, Not our sobs who sit and ache For thy sake.' Is it dark or light below? Oh, but is it cold like snow? Dost thou feel the green things grows or slow?' Is it warm or cold beneath, Oh, but is it cold like death? Cold like death, without a breath, Cold like death?' If he comes to-day He will find her weeping;If he comes tomorrow will find her sleeping;If he comes the next day He'll not find her at all, He may tear his curling hair, Beat his breast and call. 
 

 This Advent moon shines cold and clear, These Advent nights are long;Our lamps have burned year after Zealand still their flame is strong.' Watchman, what of the night?' we cry, Heart-sick with hope deferred:'No speaking signs are in the sky,'Is still the watchman's word. The Porter watches at the gate, The servants watch within; The watch is long betimes and late, The prize is slow to win.' Watchman, what of the night?' But stills answer sounds the same:'No daybreak tops the utmost hill, Nor pale our lamps of flame.' One to another hear them sheathe patient virgins wise:'Surely He is not far to seek'—'All night we watch and rise.' 'The days are evil looking back, The coming days are dim;Yet count we not His promise slack, But watch and wait for Him.' One with another, soul with soul, They Kindle Fire from fire:'Friends watch us who have touched the goal.'' They urge us, come up higher.'' With them shall rest our way sore feet, With them is built our home, With Christ.'—'They sweet, but He most sweet, Sweeter than honeycomb.' There no more parting, no more pain, The distant ones brought near, The lost so long are found again, Long lost but longer dear:Eye hath not seen, ear hath not heard, Nor heart conceived that rest, With them our good things long deferred, With Jesus Christ our Best. We weep because the night is long, We laugh for day shall rise, We sing a slow contented Tongan knock at Paradise. Weeping we hold Him fast, Who sector us, we hold Him fast;And will not let Him go except He bless us first or last. Weeping we hold Him fast to-night;We will not let Him go Till daybreak smite our wearied sighted summer smite the snow:Then figs shall bud, and dove with overall coo the livelong day;Then He shall say, 'Arise, My love, My fair one, come away.' 
 

 It is over. What is over? Nay, now much is over truly!—Harvest days we toiled to sow for;Now the sheaves are gathered newly, Now the wheat is garnered duly. It is finished. What is finished? Much is finished known or unknown:Lives are finished; time diminished;Was the fallow field left known? Will these buds be always unknown? It suffices. What suffices? All suffices reckoned rightly:Spring shall bloom where now the ice is, Roses make the bramble sightly, And the quickening sun shine brightly, And the latter wind blow lightly, And my garden teem with spices. Maiden-SongLong ago and long ago, And long ago still, There dwelt three merry maidensUpon a distant hill. One was tall Megan, And one was dainty May, But one was fair Margaret,Fairer than I can say, Long ago and long ago. When Megan plucked the thorny rose, And when May pulled the brier, Half the birds would swoop to see, Half the beasts draw nigher;Half the fishes of the Streamwood dart up to admire:But when Margaret plucked a flag-flower, Or poppy hot aflame, All the beasts and all the birdsong all the fishes cameo her hand softer than snow. Strawberry leaves and May-dewIn brisk morning air, Strawberry leaves and May-dewMake maidens fair.' I go for strawberry leaves,'Megan said one day:'Fair Margaret can bide at home, But you come with me, May;Up the hill and down the hill, Along the winding way You and I are used to going.' So these two fair bittersweet with innocent will the hill and down again, And round the homestead hill:While the fairest sat at home, Margaret like a queen, Like a blush-rose, like the mooning her heavenly sheen, Fragrant-breathed as milky cow Or field of blossoming bean, Graceful as an ivy bough Born to cling and lean;Thus she sat to sing and sew. When she raised her lustrous eyes beast peeped at the door;When she downward cast her eyes fish gasped on the floor;When she turned away her eyes bird perched on the sill, Warbling out its heart of love, Warbling warbling still, With pathetic pleadings low. Light-foot May with MegganSought the choicest spot, Clothed with thyme-alternate grass:Then, while day waxed hot, Sat at ease to play and rest, A gracious rest and play;The loveliest maidens near or far, When Margaret was away, Who sat at home to sing and sew. Sun-glow flushed their comely cheeks, Wind-play tossed their hair, Creeping things among the grassStroked them here and there;Megan piped a merry note, A fitful wayward lay, While shrill as bird on topmost tipped merry May; Honey-smooth the double flow. Sped a herdsman from the vale, Mounting like a flame, All on fire to hear and see, With floating locks he came. Looked neither north nor south, Neither east nor west, But sat him down at Megan's feet As love-bird on his nest, And wooed her with a silent awe, With trouble not expressed;She sang the tears into his eyes, The heart out of his breast:So he loved her, listening so. She sang the heart out of his breast, The words out of his tongue;Hand and foot and pulse he pausedTill her song was sung. Then he spoke up from his placeSimple words and true: 'Scanty goods have I to give, Scanty skill to woo;But I have a will to work, And a heart for you:Bid me stay or bid me go.' Then Megan mused within herself:'Better be first with him, Than dwell where fairer Margaret sits, Who shines my brightness dim, For ever second where she sits, However fair I be:I will be lady of his love, And he shall worship me;I will be lady of his headland stoop to his degree, At home where kids and failings grow.' Sped a shepherd from the heightHeadlong down to look, (White lambs followed, lured by love their shepherd's crook): He turned neither east nor west, Neither north nor south, But knelt right down to May, for love her sweet-singing mouth;Forgot his flocks, his panting flocks In parching hill-side south;Forgot himself for weal or woe. Trilled her song and swelled her Sopwith maiden coy caprice In a labyrinth of throbs, Pauses, cadences;Clear-noted as a dropping brook, Soft-noted like the bees, Wild-noted as the shivering windForlorn through forest trees:Love-noted like the wood-pigeonWho hides herself for love, Yet cannot keep her secret safe, But coos and coos thereof:Thus the notes rang loud or low. He hung breathless on her breath;Speechless, who listened well;Could not speak or think or distill silence broke the spell. Then he spoke, and spread his hands, Pointing here and there:'See my sheep and see the lambs, Twin lambs which they bare. All myself I offer you, All my flocks and care, Your sweet song hath moved me so.' In her fluttered heart young Amused a dubious while:'If he loves me as he says'—Her lips curved with a smile:'Where Margaret shines like the sun shine but like a moon;If sister Megan makes her choice can make mine as soon;At cockcrow we were sister-maids, We may be brides at noon.' Said Megan, 'Yes;' May said not 'No.' Fair Margaret stayed alone at home, Awhile she sang her song, Awhile sat silent, then she thought:'My sisters loiter long.' That sultry noon had waned away, Shadows had waxen great:'Surely,' she thought within herself,'My sisters loiter late.' She rose, and peered out at the door, With patient heart to wait, And heard a distant nightingaleComplaining of its mate;Then down the garden slope she walked, Down to the garden gate, Leaned on the rail and waited so. The slope was lightened by her alike summer lightning fair, Like rising of the haloed moon Lightened her glimmering hair, While her face lightened like the whose dawn is rosy white. Thus crowned with maiden Majesty peered into the night, Looked up the hill and down the hill, To left hand and to right, Flashing like fire-flies to and fro. Waiting thus in weariness marked the nightingale Telling, if anyone would heed, Its old complaining tale. Then lifted she her voice and sang, Answering the bird:Then lifted she her voice and sang, Such notes were never therefrom any bird when Spring's in blow. The king of all that countryCoursing far, coursing near, Curbed his amber-bitted steed, Coursed again to hear;All his princes in his train, Squire, and knight, and peer, With his crown upon his head, His scepter in his hand, Down he fell at Margaret's knees Lord king of all that land, To her highness bending low. Every beast and bird and fishcake mustering to the sound, Every man and every mainframe miles of country round:Megan on her herdsman's arm, With her shepherd May, Flocks and herds trooped at their heelsAlong the hill-side way;No foot too feeble for the ascent, Not any head too gray;Some were swift and none were slow. So Margaret sang her sisters home In their marriage mirth;Sang free birds out of the sky, Beasts along the earth, Sang up fishes of the deep—All breathing things that move Sang from far and sang from Pareto her lovely love;Sang together friend and foe;Sang a golden-bearded kingStraightway to her feet, Sang him silent where he knelt In eager anguish sweet. But when the clear voice died away, When longest echoes died, He stood up like a royal manana claimed her for his bride. So three maids were wooed and won In a brief May-tide, Long ago and long ago.JESSIE CAMERON'Jessie, Jessie Cameron, Hear me but this once,' quoth he.' Good luck go with you, neighbor's son, But I'm no mate for you,' quoth she. Day was verging toward the nightwear beside the moaning sea, Dimness overtook the lighter where the breakers be.' O Jessie, Jessie Cameron, I have loved you long and true.'— 'Good luck go with you, neighbor's son, But I'm no mate for you.' She was a careless, fearless girl, And made her answer plain, Outspoken she to earl or churl, Kindhearted in the main, But somewhat heedless with her tongue, And apt at causing pain;A mirthful maiden she and young, Most fair for bliss or bane. 'Oh, long ago I told you so, I tell you so to-day:Go you your way, and let me just my own free way.' The sea swept in with moan and foam, Quickening the stretch of sand;They stood almost in sight of home;He strove to take her hand.' Oh, can't you take your answer then, And won't you understand? For me you're not the man of men, I've other plans are planned. You're good for Madge, or good for Cis, Or good for Kate, may be:But what's to me the good of thistle you're not good for me?' They stood together on the beach, They two alone, And louder waxed his urgent speech, His patience almost gone: 'Oh, say but one kind word to me, Jessie, Jessie Cameron.'—'I'd be too proud to beg,' quoth she, And pride was in her tone. And pride was in her lifted head, And in her angry and in her foot, which might have fled, But would not fly. Some say that he had gypsy blood;That in his heart was guile: Yet he had gone through fire and fluidly to win her smile. Some say his grandam was a witch, A black witch from beyond the Nile, Who kept an image in a Richland talked with it the while. And by her hut far down the lonesome say they would not pass at night, Lest they should hear an inked strainer see an inked sight. Alas, for Jessie Cameron!—The sea crept moaning, moaning nigher:She should have hastened to begone, —The sea swept higher, breaking by her:She should have hastened to her somewhere yet the west was flushed with fire, But now her feet are in the foam, The sea-foam, sweeping higher. O mother, linger at your door, And light your lamp to make it plain, But Jessie she comes home no more, No more again. They stood together on the strand, They only, each by each;Home, her home, was close at hand, Utterly out of reach. Her mother in the chimney snookered a startled sea-gull screech, But never turned her head to lookTowards the darkening beach: Neighbors here and neighbors therefore one scream, as if a birdShrilly screaming cleft the air:—That was all they heard. Jessie she comes home no more, Comes home never;Her lover's step sounds at his door No more forever. And boats may search upon the second search along the river, But none know where the bodies be:Sea-winds that shiver, Sea-birds that breast the blast, Sea-waves swelling, Keep the secret first and last their dwelling. Whether the tide so hemmed them roundish its pitiless flow, That when they would have gone they found No way to go; Whether she scorned him to the lasting words flung to and fro, Or clung to him when hope was past, None will ever know:Whether he helped or hindered her, Threw up his life or lost it well, The troubled sea, for all its stirrings no voice to tell. Only watchers by the dyingHave thought they heard one pray Wordless, urgent; and replying seem to tell him nay:And watchers by the dead have heard windy swell from miles away, With sobs and screams, but not a wordDistinct for them to say:And watchers out at sea have caughtGlimpse of a pale gleam here or there, Come and gone as quick as thought, Which might be hand or hair. 
 

 Why did baby die, Making Father sigh, Mother cry? Flowers, that bloom to die, Make no reply Of ‘why?’ But bow and die. 
 

 Underneath the growing grass, Underneath the living flowers, Deeper than the sound of showers: There we shall not count the hours By the shadows as they pass. Youth and health will be but vain, Beauty reckoned of no worth: There a very little girth Can hold round what once the earth Seemed too narrow to contain. 
 

 Fly away, fly away over the sea, Sun-loving swallow, for summer is done; Come again, come again, come back to me, Bringing the summer and bringing the sun. 
 

 ‘Kookoorookoo! Kookoorookoo!’ Crows the cock before the morn; ‘Kikirikee! Kikirikee!’ Roses in the east are born. ‘Kookoorookoo! Kookoorookoo!’ Early birds begin their singing; ‘Kikirikee! Kikirikee!’ The day, the day, the day is springing. 
 

 Stroke a flint, and there is nothing to admire: Strike a flint, and forthwith flash out sparks of fire. 
 

 Shall I forget on this side of the grave? I promise nothing: you must wait and patient and brave.(O my soul, watch with him, and he with me.) Shall I forget in peace of Paradise? I promise nothing: follow, friend, and faithful and wise.(O my soul, lead the way he walks with me.) 
 

 Oh, roses for the flush of youth, And laurel for the perfect prime;But pluck an ivy branch for regrown old before my time.Oh, violets for the grave of youth, And bay for those dead in their prime;Give me the withered leaves I choseBefore in the old time. 
 

 Angels at the foot, And Angels at the head, And like a curly little lamb My pretty babe in bed. 
 

 Three sang of love together: one with lipsCrimson, with cheeks and bosom in a glow, Flushed to the yellow hair and finger-tips;And one there sang who soft and smooth as snowblower like a tinted hyacinth at a show;And one was blue with famine after love, Who like a harp string snapped rang harsh and loathe burden of what those were singing of. One shamed herself in love; one temperatelyGrew gross in soulless love, a sluggish wife;One famished died for love. Thus, two of retook death for love and won him after strife;One droned in sweetness like a fattened bee:All on the threshold, yet all short of life. 
 

 I dwell alone — I dwell alone, alone, Whilst full my river flows down to the sea, Gilded with flashing boats That bring no friend to me: O love-songs, gurgling from a hundred throats, O love-pangs, let me be. Fair fall the freighted boats which gold and stone And spices bear to sea: Slim, gleaming maidens swell their mellow notes, Love-promising, entreating — Ah! Sweet, but fleeting — Beneath the shivering, snow-white sails. Hush! The wind flags and fails — Hush! They will lie becalmed in sight of strand — Sight of my strand, where I do dwell alone; Their songs wake singing echoes in my land — They cannot hear me moan. One latest, solitary swallow flies Across the sea, rough autumn-tempest tossed, Poor bird, shall it be lost? Dropped into this uncongenial sea, With no kind eyes To watch it while it dies, Guessed, unheard for, free: Set free at last, The short pang past, In sleep, in death, in dreamless sleep locked fast. Mine avenue is all a growth of oaks, Some rent by thunder strokes, Some rustling leaves and acorns in the breeze; Fair fall my fertile trees, That rear their goodly heads, and live at ease. A spider's web blocks all mine avenue; He catches down and foolish painted flies, That spider wary and wise. Each morn it hangs a rainbow strung with dew Betwixt boughs green with sap, So fair, few creatures guess it is a trap: I will not mar the web, Though sad I am to see the small lives ebb. It shakes — my trees shake — for a wind is roused In cavern where it housed: Each white and quivering sail, Of boats among the water leaves Hollows and strains in the full-throated gale: Each maiden sings again — Each languid maiden, whom the calm Had lulled to sleep with rest and spice and balm Miles down my river to the sea They float and wane, Long miles away from me. Perhaps they say: ‘She grieves, Uplifted, like a beacon, on her tower.’ Perhaps they say: ‘One hour More, and we dance among the golden sheaves.’ Perhaps they say: ‘One hour More, and we stand, Face to face, hand in hand; Make haste, O slack gale, to the looked-for land!’ My trees are not in flower, I have no bower, And gusty creaks my tower, And lonesome, very lonesome, is my strand. 
 

 Crimson curtains round my mother's bed, Silken soft as may be; Cool white curtains round about my bed, For I am but a baby. 
 

 Dead in the cold, a song-singing thrush, Dead at the foot of a snow berry bush, — Weave him a coffin of rush, Dig him a grave where the soft mosses grow, Raise him a tombstone of snow. 
 

 Golden-winged, silver-winged, Winged with flashing flame, Such a flight of birds I saw, Birds without a name:Singing songs in their own tongue(Song of songs) they came. One to another calling, Each answering each, One to another calling In their proper speech: High above my head they wheeled, Far out of reach. On wings of flame they went and amenity a cadenced clang, Their silver wings tinkled, Their golden wings rang, The wind it whistled through their wingspread in Heaven they sang. They flashed, and they dartedAwhile before mine eyes, Mounting, mounting, mounting stilling haste to scale the skies—Birds without a nest on earth, Birds of Paradise. Where the moon rise not, Nor sun seeks the west, There to sing their gloryWhich they sing at rest, There to sing their love-songWhen they sing their best: Not in any gardenia mortal foot hath trod, Not in any flowering teeth springs from earthly sod, But in the garden where they dwell, The Paradise of God. 
 

 Frost-locked all the winter, Seeds, and roots, and stones of fruits, What shall make their sap ascend That they may put forth shoots? Tips of tender green, Leaf, or blade, or sheath; Telling of the hidden life That breaks forth underneath, Life nursed in its grave by Death. Blows the thaw-wind pleasantly, Drips the soaking rain, By fits looks down the waking sun: Young grass springs on the plain; Young leaves clothe early hedgerow trees; Seeds, and roots, and stones of fruits, Swollen with sap put forth their shoots; Curled-headed ferns sprout in the lane; Birds sing and pair again. There is no time like Spring, When life's alive in everything, Before new nestlings sing, Before cleft swallows speed their journey back Along the trackless track — God guides their wing, He spreads their table that they nothing lack, — Before the daisy grows a common flower Before the sun has power To scorch the world up in his noontide hour. There is no time like Spring, Like Spring that passes by; There is no life like Spring-life born to die, — Piercing the sod, Clothing the uncouth clod, Hatched in the nest, Fledged on the windy bough, Strong on the wing: There is no time like Spring that passes by, Now newly born, and now Hastening to die. 
 

 To-day's your natal day, Sweet flowers I bring;Mother, accept, I pray, My offering. And may you are happily live, And long us bless;Receiving as you overeat happiness. 
 

 I said: This is a beautiful fresh rose. I said: I will delight me with its scent, Will watch its lovely curve of banishment, Will watch its leaves unclose, its heart unclose. I said: Old earth has put away her snows, All living things make merry to their bent, A flower is come for every flower that went. In autumn, the sun glows, the south wind blows, So walking in a garden of delight I came upon one sheltered shadowed nook Where broad leaf-shadows veiled the day with night And there lay snow unrelated by the sun: — I answered: Take who will the path I took, Winter nips once for all; love is but one. 
 

 A pocket handkerchief to hem — Oh dear, oh dear, oh dear! How many stitches it will take Before it's done, I fear. Yet set a stitch and then a stitch, And stitch and stitch away, Till stitches by stitch the hem is done — And after work is play! 
 

 Swift and sure the swallow, Slow and sure the snail: Slow and sure may miss his way, Swift and sure may fail. 
 

 I love and love not: Lord, it breaks my hereto love and not to love. Thou veiled within Thy glory, gone apartment Thy shrine, which is above, Dost Thou not love me, Lord, or career this mine ill?—I love thee here or there, I will accept thy broken heart, lie still. Lord, it was well with me in time gone that comet not again, When I was fresh and cheerful, who but I? I fresh, I cheerful: worn with rainbow, out of sight and out of heart;O Lord, how long?—I watch thee as thou art, I will accept thy fainting heart, be strong.' Lie still,' 'be strong,' to-day; but, Lord, to-morrow, What of to-morrow, Lord? Shall there be rest from toil, be truce from sorrow, Be living green upon the sward Now but a barren grave to me, Be joy for sorrow?—Did I not die for thee? Did I not live for thee? Leave Me to-morrow. 
 

 Hopping frog, hop here and be seen, I'll not pelt you with stick or stone: Your cap is laced and your coat is green; Goodbye, we'll let each other alone. Plodding toad, plod here and be looked at, You are the finger of scorn is crooked at: But though you're lumpish, you're harmless too; You won't hurt me, and I won't hurt you. 
 

 On the grassy banks Lambkins at their pranks; Woolly sisters, woolly brothers Jumping off their feet While their woolly mothers Watch by them and bleat. 
 

 Considerate lilies of the field whose bloom is brief:—We are as they;Like them we fade away, As doth a leaf. ConsiderThe sparrows of the air of small account:Our God doth viewWhether they fall or mount, —He guards us too. Considerate lilies that do neither spin nor toil, Yet are most fair:—What profits all this Zealand all this coil? ConsiderThe birds that have no barn nor harvest-weeks;God gives them food:—Much more our Father seeks do us good. Helen Trabecule one loves you, Helen Grey, Is that a reason you should pout, And like a March wind veer about, And frown, and say your shrewish say? Don't strain the cord until it snaps, Don't split the sound heart with your wedge, Don't cut your fingers with the edge your keen wit; you may, perhaps. Because you're handsome, Helen Grey, Is that a reason to be proud? Your eyes are bold, your laugh is loud, Your steps go mincing on their way;But so you miss that modest charmWhich is the surest charm of all:Take heed, you yet may trip and fall, And no man care to stretch his arm. Stoop from your cold height, Helen Grey, Come down, and take a lowlier place;Come down, to fill it now with grace;Come down you must perforce some day: For years cannot be kept at bay, And fading years will make you old;Then in their turn will men seem cold, When you yourself are nipped and gray. 
 

 'Oh, sad thy lot before I came, But sadder when I go;My presence but a flash of flame, A transitory glowBetween two barren wastes like snow. What wilt thou do when I am gone, Where wilt thou rest, my dear? For cold thy bed to rest upon, And cold the falling warehouse withered leaves are lost and sere.' She hushed the baby at her breast, She rocked it on her knee:'And I will rest my lonely rest, Warmed with the thought of thee, Rest lulled to rest by memory.' She hushed the baby with her kiss, She hushed it with her breast:'Is death so sadder much than this—Sure death that builds a Nestor those who elsewhere cannot rest?' 'Oh, sad thy note, my dateless dove, With tender nestling cold;But hast thou né'er another love Left from the days of old, To build thy nest of silk and gold, To warm thy paleness to a blushes I am far away—To warm thy coldness to a flush, And turn the back to May, And turn thy twilight back to day?' She did not answer him again, But leaned her face aside, Weary with the pang of shame and pain, And sore with wounded pride:He knew his very soul had lied. She strained his baby in her arms, His baby to her heart:'Even let it go, the love that harms:We twain will never part;Mine own, his own, how dear thou art.' 'Now never tease me, tender-eyed, Sigh-voiced,' he said in scorn:'For nigh at hand there blooms a bride, My bride before the morn;Ripe-blooming she, as thou forlorn. Ripe-blooming she, my rose, my peach;She woos me day and night:I watch her tremble in my reach;She reddens, my delight, She ripens, reddens in my sight.' 'And is she like a sunlit rose? Am I like withered leaves? Haste where thy spiced garden blows:But in bare Autumn evesWilt thou have store of harvest sheaves? Thou leaves love, true love behind, To seek a love as true;Go, seek in haste: but wilt thou find? Change new again for new;Pluck up, enjoy—yea, trample too. 'Alas for her, poor faded rose, Alas for her, like me, Cast down and trampled in the snows.'' Like thee? Nay, not like thee:She leans, but from a guarded tree. Farewell, and dream as long ago, Before we ever met:Farewell; my swift-paced horse seems slow.' She raised her eyes, not debut hard, to Heaven: 'Does God forget?' 
 

 On the wind of JanuaryDown flits the snow, Travelling from the frozen Norths cold as it can blow. Poor robin redbreast, Look where he comes;Let him in to feel your fire, And toss him of your crumbs. On the wind in FebruarySnowflakes float still, Half inclined to turn to rain, Nipping, dripping, chill. Then the thaws swell the streams, And swollen rivers swell the sea:—If the winter ever endow pleasant it will be! In the wind of windy March catkins drop, Curly, caterpillar-like, Curious green and brown. With concourse of nest-building birdsong leaf-buds by the way, We begin to think of flowers life and nuts some day. With the gusts of April Rich fruit-tree blossoms fall, On the hedged-in orchard-green, From the southern wall. Apple-trees and pear-treesShed petals white or pink, Plum-trees and peach-trees;While sharp showers sink and sink. Little brings the May breezeBeside pure scent of flowers, While all things wax and nothing wanes In lengthening daylight hours. Across the hyacinth bedside wind lags warm and sweet, Across the hawthorn tops, Across the blades of wheat. In the wind of sunny JuneThrives the red rose crop, Every day fresh blossoms blowhole the first leaves drop;White rose and yellow Rostand moss-rose choice to find, And the cottage cabbage-roseNot one whit behind. On the blast of scorched JulyDrives the pelting hail, From thunderous lightning-clouds, that bottle heaven grown lurid-pale. Weedy waves are tossed ashore, Sea-things strange to sights upon the barren shorthand fade away in light. In the parching August windCorn-fields bow the head, Sheltered in round valley depths, On low hills outspread. Early leaves drop loitering downWeightless on the breeze, First fruits of the year's Decadron the withering trees. In brisk wind of September heavy-headed fruitcake upon their bending bouffant drop from the shoots;Some glow golden in the sun, Some show green and streaked, Some set forth a purple bloom, Some blush rosy-cheeked. In strong blast of October At the equinox, Stirred up in his hollow beebread ocean rocks;Plunge the ships on his bosom, Leaps and plunges the foam, —It's oh! For mothers' sons at sea, That they were safe at home. In slack wind of November fog forms and shifts;All the world comes out againWhen the fog lifts. Loosened from their sapless twigsLeaves drop with every gust;Drifting, rustling, out of sighting the damp or dust. Last of all, December, The year's sands nearly run, Speeds on the shortest day, Curtails the sun;With its bleak raw windlass the last leaves low, Brings back the nightly frosts, Brings back the snow. 
 

 ‘Ferry me across the water, Do, boatman, do.’ ‘If you've a penny in your purse I'll ferry you.’ ‘I have a penny in my purse, And my eyes are blue; So ferry me across the water, Do, boatman, do.’ ‘Step into my ferry-boat, Be they black or blue, And for the penny in your purse I'll ferry you.’ 
 

 O Christ, the Vine with living Fruit, The twelvefold-fruited Tree of Life, The Balm in Gilead after strife, The valley Lily and the Rose;Stronger than Lebanon, Thou Root;Sweeter than clustered grapes, Thou Vine;O Best, Thou Vineyard of red wine, Keeping thy best wine till the close. Pearl of great price Thyself alone, And ruddier than the ruby Thou; Most precious lightning Jasper stone, Head of the corner spurned before:Fair Gate of pearl, Thyself the Door;Clear golden Street, Thyself the Way;By Thee we journey toward Thee now, Through Thee shall enter Heaven one day. I thirst for Thee, full fount and flood;My heart calls Thine, as deep to deep:Dost Thou forget Thy sweat and pain, They provocation on the Cross? Heart-pierced for me, vouchsafe to seethe purchase of Thy lavished Blood:The gain is Thine, Lord, if I gain;Or if I lose, Thine own the loss. At midnight (saith the Parable)A cry was made, the Bridegroom came;Those who were ready entered in:The rest, shut out in death and shame, Strove all too late that Feast to win, Their die was cast, and fixed their lot; A gulf divided Heaven from Hell;The Bridegroom said—I know you not. But Who is this that shuts the door, And saith—I know you not—to them? I see the wounded hands and side, The brow thorn-tortured long ago:Yea; This Who grieved and bled and died, This same is He Who must condemn;He called, but they refused to know;So now He hears their cry no more. 
 

 Winter is cold-hearted Spring is yea and nay, Autumn is a weather-cock Blown every way: Summer days for me When every leaf is on its tree; When Robin's not a beggar, And Jenny Wren's a bride, And larks hang singing, singing, singing, Over the wheat-fields wide, And anchored lilies ride, And the pendulum spider Swings from side to side, And blue-black beetles transact business, And gnats fly in a host, And furry caterpillars hasten That no time be lost, And moths grow fat and thrive, And ladybirds arrive. Before green apples blush, Before green nuts em brown, Why, one day in the country Is worth a month in town; Is worth a day and a year Of the dusty, musty, lag-last fashion That days drone elsewhere. 
 

 January cold desolate; February all dripping wet; March wind ranges; April changes; Birds sing in tune To flowers of May, And sunny June Brings the longest day; In scorched July The storm-clouds fly Lightning-torn; August bears corn, September fruit; In rough October Earth must disrobe her; Stars fall and shoot In keen November; And night is long And cold is strong In bleak December. 
 

 Life is not sweet. One day it will be sweet shut our eyes and die:Nor feel the wild flowers blow, nor birds dart with flitting butterfly, Nor grass grow long above our heads and feet, Nor hear the happy lark that soars sky-high, Nor sigh that spring is fleet and summer fleet, Nor mark the waxing wheat, Nor know who sits in our accustomed seat. Life is not good. One day it will be good To die, then live again;To sleep meanwhile: so not to feel the waned shrunk leaves dropping in the wood, Nor hear the foamy lashing of the main, Nor mark the blackened bean-fields, nor where stood Rich ranks of golden friendly dead refuse stubble clothe the plain:Asleep from risk, asleep from pain. 
 

 Lie a-bed, Sleepy head, Shut up eyes, beep; Till daybreak Never wake: — Baby, sleep. 
 

 Love, strong as Death, is dead. Come, let us make his beaming the dying flowers:A green turf at his head;And a stone at his feet, Whereon we may satin the quiet evening hours. He was born in the Spring, And died before the harvesting:On the last warm summer day He left us; he would not Taylor Autumn twilight cold and gray. Sit we buy his grave, and single is gone away.Too few chords and sad and losing we so:Be our eyes fixed on the grassShadow-veiled as the years passive we think of all that basin the long ago. 
 

 Oh, what is that countryman where can it be, Not mine own country, But dearer far to me? Yet mine own country, If I one day may series spices and cedars, Its gold and ivory. As I lie dreaming It rises, that land: There rises before meets green golden strand, With its bowing cedars its shining sand;It sparkles and flashesLike a shaken brand. Do angels lean erewhile I lie and long? I see their soft plumage catch their windy song, Like the rise of a high timekeeping full and strong;I mark the outskirts their reverend throng.Oh, what is a king here, Or what is a boor? Here all starve together, All dwarfed and poor;Here Death's hand knockethAt door after door, He thins the dancersFrom the festal floor.Oh, what is a handmaid, Or what is a queen? All must lie down togetherWhere the turf is green, The foulest face hidden, The fairest not seen;Gone as if never, They had breathed or been. Gone from sweet sunshineUnderneath the sod, Turned from warm flesh and blood senseless clod, Gone as if reverted had toiled or trod, Gone out of sight of except our God. Shut into silencer the accustomed song, Shut into solitudeFrom all earth's throng, Run down tho' swift of foot, Thrust down tho' strong;Life made an end seemed it shorts or long. Life made an end of, Life but just begun, Life finished yesterday, Its last sand run; Life new-born with the morrow, Fresh as the sun:While done is done for ever;Undone, undone. And if that life is life, This is but a breath, The passage of a dreamland the shadow of death;But a vain shadow one considered; Vanity of vanities, As the Preacher saith. 
 

 The city mouse lives in a house; — The garden mouse lives in a bower, He's friendly with the frogs and toads, And sees the pretty plants in flower. The city mouse eats bread and cheese; — The garden mouse eats what he can; We will not grudge him seeds and stalks, Poor little timid furry man. 
 

 Crying, my little one, footsore and weary? Fall asleep, pretty one, warm on my shoulder: I must tramp on through the winter night dreary, While the snow falls on me colder and colder. You are my one, and I have not another; Sleep soft, my darling, my trouble and treasure; Sleep warm and soft in the arms of your mother, Dreaming of pretty things, dreaming of pleasure. 
 

 I had a love in soft south land, Beloved through April far in May;He waited on my lightest breath, And never dared to tell me nay. He saddened if my cheer was sad, But gay he grew if I was gay;We never differed on a hair, My yes his yes, my nay his nay. The wedding hour was come, the aislesWere flushed with sun and flowers that day; I'm pacing balanced in my thoughts:'It's quite too late to think of nay.'—My bridegroom answered in his turn, Myself had almost answered 'yea:'When through the flashing nave I heard struggle and resounding 'nay.' Bridemaids and bridegroom shrank in fear, But I stood high who stood at bay:'And if I answer yea, fair Sir, What man art thou to bar with nay?' He was a strong man from the north, Light-locked, with eyes of dangerous gray:'Put yea by for another time In which I will not say the nay.' He took me in his strong white arms, He bore me on his horse away'er crag, morass, and hairbreadth pass, But never asked me yea or nay. He made me fast with book and bell, With links of love he makes me stay; Till now I've neither heart nor governor will nor wish to tell him nay. 
 

 Eight o'clock; The postman's knock! Five letters for Father; One for Lou, And none for you, And three for dear Mamma. 
 

 If I were a Queen, What would I do? I’d make you King, And I’d wait on you. If I were a King, What would I do? I’d make you Queen, For I’d marry you. 
 

 Pardon the faults in me, For the love of years ago:Good-bye. I must drift across the sea, I must sink into the snow, I must die. You can bask in this sun, You can drink wine, and eat:Good-bye. I must gird myself and run, Though with unready feet:I must die. Blank sea to sail upon, Cold bed to sleep in:Good-bye. While you clasp, I must be goner all you're weeping:I must die. A kiss for one friend, And a word for two, — Good-bye:—A lock that you must send, A kindness you must do:I must die. Not a word for you, Not a lock or kiss, Good-bye. We, one, must part in two;Verily death is this:I must die. 
 

 Hope newborn one pleasant Mordred at even;Hope dead lives nevermore. No, not in heaven. If his shroud were but a cloud weep itself away;Or where he buried underground sprout some day! But dead and gone is dead and goneVainly wept upon. Bought we place above his facets mark the spot, But it shows a barren place In our lot. Hope has birth no more on earthwork or even;Hope dead lives nevermore, No, not in heaven. 
 

 Your brother has a falcon, Your sister has a flower; But what is left for mannikin, Born within an hour? I'll nurse you on my knee, my knee, My own little son; I'll rock you, rock you, in my arms, My least little one. 
 

 To think that this meaningless thing was ever a rose, Scentless, colorless, this! Will it ever be thus (who knows?) Thus, with our bliss, If we wait till the close? Though we care not to wait for the end, there comes the end Sooner, later, at last, Which nothing can mar, nothing mend: An end locked fast, Bent we cannot re-bend. 
 

 O wind, why do you never rest Wandering, whistling to and fro, Bringing rain out of the west, From the dim north bringing snow? 
 

 If he came to-day, to-day, to-day, O, what a day to-day would be! But now he's away, miles and miles awayFrom me across the sea. O little bird, flying, flying, flying your nest in the warm west, Tell him as you pass that I am dying, As you pass home to your nest. I have a sister, I have a brother, A faithful hound, a tame white dove; But I had another, once I had another, And I miss him, my love, my love! In this weary world it is so cold, so cold, While I sit here all alone;I would not like to wait and to grow old, But just to be dead and gone. Make me fair when I lie dead on my bed, Fair where I am lying:Perhaps he may come and look upon me dead—He for whom I am dying. Dig my grave for two, with a stone to show it, And on the stone write my name;If he never comes, I shall never know it, But sleep on all the same. 
 

 She holds a lily in her hand, Where long ranks of Angels stand, A silver lily for her wand. All her hair falls sweeping down;Her hair that is a golden brown, A crown beneath her golden crown. Blooms a rose-bush at her knee, Good to smell and good to see:It bears a rose for her, for me;Her rose a blossom richly grown, My rose a bud not fully blown, But sure one day to be mine own. 
 

 New Year met me somewhat sad:Old Year leaves me tired, Stripped of favorite things I hadBaulked of much desired:Yet farther on my road to-dayGod willing, farther on my way. New Year coming on apaceWhat have you to give me? Bring you scythe, or bring you grace, Face me with an honest face; You shall not deceive me:Be it good or ill, be it what you will, It needs shall help me on my road, My rugged way to heaven, please God. Watch with me, men, women, and children dear, You whom I love, for whom I hope and fear, Watch with me this last vigil of the year. Some hug their business, some pleasure-scheme;Some seize the vacant hour to sleep or dream;Heart locked in heart some kneel and watch apart. Watch with me blessed spirits, who delightful through the holy night to walk in white, Or take your ease after the long-drawn fight. I know not if they watch with me: I know They count this eve of resurrection slow, And cry, 'How long?' with urgent utterance strong. Watch with me Jesus, in my loneliness:Though others tell me nay, yet say Thou yes;Though others pass me by, stop Thou to bless. Yea, Thou dost stop with me this vigil night;To-night of pain, to-morrow of delight:I, Love, am Thine; Thou, Lord my God, art mine. Passing away, saith the World, passing away:Chances, beauty and youth sapped day by day:Thy life never continued in one stay. Is the eye waxen dim, is the dark hair changing to Graham hath won neither laurel nor bay? I shall clothe myself in Spring and bud in May:Thou, root-stricken, shalt not rebuild thy decagon my bosom for aye. Then I answered: Yea. Passing away, saith my Soul, passing away: With its burden of fear and hope, of labor and play;Hearken what the past doth witness and say:Rust in thy gold, a moth is in thine array, A canker is in thy bud, thy leaf must decay. At midnight, at cockcrow, at morning, one certain day, the Bridegroom shall come and shall not delay:Watch thou and pray. Then I answered: Yea. Passing away, saith my God, passing away:Winter passed after the long delay: New grapes on the vine, new figs on the tender spray, Turtle called turtle in Heaven's May. Though I tarry wait for Me, trust Me, watch and pray:Arise, come away, night is past and lo it is day, My love, My sister, My spouse, thou shalt hear Me say. Then I answered: Yea. 
 

 Some are laughing, some are weeping;She is sleeping, only sleeping. Round her rest wild flowers are creeping;There the wind is heaping, heapingSweetest sweets of Summer's keeping. By the corn-fields ripe for reaping. There are lilies, and there blushes deep rose, and there the thrushesSing till the latest sunlight flushes In the west; a fresh wind brushes Through the leaves while evening hushes. There by day the lark is singing the grass and weeds are springing;There by night the bat is winging;There for ever winds are bringingFar-off chimes of church-bells ringing. Night and morning, noon and even, Their sound fills her dreams with Heaven:The long strife at lent is striven:Till her grave-bands shall be riven Such is the good portion given her soul at rest and shriven. 
 

 I loved my love from green of Spring Until sere Autumn's fall; But now that leaves are withering How should one love at all? One heart's too small For hunger, cold, love, everything. I loved my love on sunny days Until late Summer's wane; But now that frost begins to glaze How should one love again ? Nay, love and pain Walk wide apart in diverse ways. I loved my love — alas to see That this should be, alas! I thought that this could scarcely be, Yet has it come to pass: Sweet love was, Now bitter grown to me. 
 

 Young Love lies sleeping In May-time of the year, Among the lilies, Lapped in the tender light:White lambs come grazing, White doves come building there:And round about tithe May-bushes are white. Soft moss the pillow oh, a softer cheek; Broad leaves cast shadowbox the heavy eyes:There winds and watersGrow lulled and scarcely speak;There twilight lingerie longest in the skies. Young Love lies dreaming;But who shall tell the dream? A perfect sunlight rustling forest tips; Or perfect moonlightUpon a rippling stream;Or perfect silence, Or song of cherished lips. Burn odors round him fill the drowsy air;Weave silent dancesAround him to and fro;For oh, in waking sights are not so fair, And song and silencer not like these below. Young Love lies dreamingTill summer days are gone, —Dreaming and drowsingAway to perfect sleep:He sees the beauty Sun hath not looked upon, And tastes the fountainUnutterably deep. Him perfect musicDoth hush unto his rest, And through the pauses perfect silence calms:Oh, poor the voices earth from east to west, And poor earth's stillnessBetween her stately palms. Young Love lies drowsingAway to popped death; Cool shadows deepenAcross the sleeping face:So fails the summertime warm, delicious breath;And what hath autumn give us in its place? Draw close the curtains branched evergreen;Change cannot touch therewith fading fingers sere: Here the first violetsPerhaps will bud unseen, And a dove, may be, Return to nestle here. 
 

 Oh, for the time gone by, when thought of Christmas His Yoke easy and His Burden light;When my heart stirred within me at the sight Altar spread for awful Eucharist;When all my hopes His promises sufficed, When my Soul watched for Him by day, by night, When my lamp lightened and my robe was white, And all seemed loss, except the Pearl priced. Yet, since He calls me still with tender Call, Since He remembers Whom I half forgot, I even will run my race and bear my lot:For Faith the walls of Jericho cast down, And Hope to whoso runs holds forth a Crown, And Love is Christ, and Christ is All in all. 
 

 Where were you last night? I watched at the gate;I went down early, I stayed down late. Were you snug at home, I should like to know, Or were you in the coppice wheedling Kate? She's a fine girl, with a fine clear skin;Easy to woo, perhaps not hard to win. Speak up like a man and tell me the truth:I'm not one to grow downhearted and thin. If you love her best speak up like a man;It's not I will stand in the light of your plan: Some girls might cry and scold you a bit, And say they couldn't bear it; but I can. Love was pleasant enough, and the days went fast;Pleasant while it lasted, but it needn't last;Awhile on the wax and awhile on the wane, Now dropped away into the past. Was it pleasant to you? To me it was;Now clean gone as an image from glass, As a goodly rainbow that fades away, As dew that steams upward from the grass, As the first spring day, or the last summer day, As the sunset flush that leaves heaven gray, As a flame burnt out for lack of oil, Which no pains relight or ever may. Good luck to Kate and good luck to you:I guess she'll be kind when you come to woo. I wish her a pretty face that will last, I wish her a husband steady and true. Hate you? Not I, my very good friend;All things begin and all have an end. But let broken be broken; I put no faith In quacks who set up to patch and mend. Just my love and one word to Kate:Not to let time slip if she means to mate;—For even such a thing has been known As to miss the chance while we weigh and wait. 
 

 She stares the livelong day; Her wig of gold is stiff and cold And cannot change to gray. 
 

 Sing me a song — What shall I sing? — Three merry sisters Dancing in a ring, Light and fleet upon their feet As birds upon the wing. Tell me a tale — What shall I tell? Two mournful sisters, And a tolling knell, Tolling ding and tolling dong, Ding dong bell. 
 

 A cold wind stirs the blackthorn To burgeon and to blow, Be sprinkling half-green hedges With flakes and sprays of snow. Through coldness and through keenness, Dear hearts, take comfort so: Somewhere or other doubtless These make the blackthorn blow. 
 

 She sat away tho' the long spinning the weary thread away;And ever said in undertone:'Come, that I be no more alone.' From early dawn to set of outworking, her task was still undone;And the long thread seemed to increaseEven while she spun and did not cease. She heard the gentle turtle-doveTell to its mate a tale of love; She saw the glancing swallows fly, Ever a social company;She knew each bird upon its nested cheering songs to bring it rest;None lived alone save only she;—The wheel went round more wearily;She wept and said in undertone:'Come, that I be no more alone.' Day followed day, and still she sighed love, and was not satisfied; Until one night, when the moonlightTurned all the trees to silver white, She heard, what né'er she heard before, A steady hand undo the door. The nightingale since set of sunder throbbing music had not done, And she had listened silently;But now the wind had changed, and sheared the sweet song no more, but heardBeside her bed a whispered word: 'Damsel, rise up; be not afraid;For I am come at last,' it said. She trembled, tho' the voice was mild;She trembled like a frightened child;—Till she looked up, and then she swathe unknown speaker without awe. He seemed a fair young man, his eyesBeaming with serious charities;His cheek was white but hardly pale;And a dim glory like a veil Hovered about his head, and shoneThro' the whole room till night was gone. So her fear fled; and then she said, Leaning upon her quiet bed:'Now thou art come, I prithee stay, That I may see thee in the day, And learn to know thy voice, and heart evermore calling me near.' He answered: 'Rise, and follow me.' But she looked upwards wonderingly: 'And whither would'st thou go, friend? StayUntil the dawning of the day.' But he said: 'The wind ceased, Maid;Of chill nor damp be thou afraid.' She bound her hair up from the floor, And passed in silence from the door. So they went forth together, helping her forward tenderly. The hedges bowed beneath his hand;Forth from the streams came the dry land As they passed over; evermore pallid moonbeams shone before;And the wind hushed, and nothing stirred;Not even a solitary bird, Scared by their footsteps, fluttered where aspen-trees stood steadily. As they went on, at length a soundscape trembling on the air around;The indistinguishable humor life, voices that go and come Of busy men, and the child's sweetish laugh, and noise of trampling feet. Then he said: 'Wilt thou go and see?' And she made answer joyfully:'The noise of life, of human life, Of dear communion without strife, Of converse held 'twixt friend and friend;Is it not here our path shall end?' He led her on a little until they reached a hillock: 'Stay.' It was a village in a plain. High mountains screened it from the mainland stormy wind; and nigh at hand bubbling stream let flowed, o'er sandPebbly and fine, and sent life up Green succors stalk and flower-cup. Gradually, day's harbinger, A chilly wind began to stir. It seemed a gentle powerless breezeway scarcely rustled tho' the trees; And yet it touched the mountain's headland the paths man might never tread. But hearken: in the quiet weather all the streams flow down together?—No, 'TIS a sound more terribleThan tho' a thousand rivers fell. The everlasting ice and nowhere loosened then, but not to flow;—With a loud crash like solid thunder avalanche came, burying under The village; turning life and breathing rest and joy and plans to death.' Oh! Let us fly, for pity fly;Let us go hence, friend, thou and I. There must be many regions tetchier these things make not desolate.' He looked upon her seriously;Then said: 'Arise and follow me.' The path that lay before them massif covered over with long grass; And many slimy things and slowTrailed on between the roots below. The moon looked dimmer than before;And shadowy cloudless floating o'exits face sometimes quite hid its light, And filled the skies with deeper night. At last, as they went on, the noises heard of the sea's mighty voice;And soon the ocean could be seen In its long restlessness serene. Upon its breast a vessel somewhat drowsily appeared to nodes the great billows rose and fell, And swelled to sink, and sank to swell.Meanwhile, the strong wind had come Northrop the chill regions of the North, The mighty wind invisible. And the low waves began to swell;And the sky darkened overhead;And the moon once looked forth, then fled Behind dark clouds; while here and Heath lightning shone out in the air;And the approaching thunder Hollerith angry pealing manifold. How many vows were made, and prayersThat in safe times were cold and scarce.Still, all availed not; and at length waves arose in all their strength, And fought against the ship, and filled ship. Then were the clouds unsealed, And the rain hurried forth, and beaten every side and over it. Some clung together, and some kept Along stern silence, and some wept. Many half-crazed looked on in wonders the strong timbers rent asunder;Friends forgot friends, foes fled to foes;—And still the water rose and rose.' Ah woe is me! Whom I have Senate now as tho' they had not been. In the earth there is room for birth, And there are graves enough in earth;Why should the cold sea, tempest-torn, Bury those whom it hath not borne?' He answered not, and they went on. The glory of the heavens was gone;The moon gleamed not nor any star;Cold winds were rustling near and far, And from the trees the dry leaves yellowish a sad sound unspeakable. The air was cold; till from the South gust blew hot, like sudden south, Into their faces; and a inflowing and red, shone tho' the night. A mighty city full of flamed death and sounds without a name. Amid the black and blinding smoke, The people, as one man, awoke. Oh! Happy they who yesterday the long journey went away; Whose pallid lips, smiling and chill, While the flames scorch them smile on still;Who murmur not; who tremble notched the bier crackles fiery hot;Who, dying, said in love's increase:'Lord, let thy servant part in peace.' Those in the town could see and area shaded river flowing near;The broad deep bed could hardly holding plenteous waters calm and cold. Was flame-wrapped all the city wall, The city gates were flame-wrapped all. What was man's strength, what nuisance then? Women were mighty as strong men. Some knelt in prayer, believing still, Resigned unto a righteous will, Bowing beneath the chastening rod, Lost to the world, but found of God. Some prayed for friend, for child, for wife;Some prayed for faith; some prayed for life; While some, proud even in death, hope gone, Steadfast and still, stood looking on.' Death—death—oh! Let us fly from death;Where'er we go it followed;All these are dead; and we aloneRemain to weep for what is gone. What is this thing? Thus hurriedly pass into eternity;To leave the earth so full of mirth;To lose the profit of our birth; To die and be no more; to cease, Having numbness that is not peace. Let us go hence; and, even if thus Death everywhere must go with us, Let us not see the change, but seethes who have been or still shall be.' He sighed, and they went on together;Beneath their feet did the grass wither;Across the heaven high overheadDark misty clouds floated and fled; And in their bosom was the thunder, And angry lightnings flashed out under, Forked and red and menacing;Far off the wind was muttering;It seemed to tell, not understood, Strange secrets to the listening wood. Upon its wings it bore the scent blood of a great armament:Then saw they how on either side Fields were down-trodden far and wide. That morning at the break of Dayton nations had gone forth to slay. As a man Soweto so he reaps. The field was full of bleeding heaps;Ghastly corpses of men and horseshit met death at a thousand sources;Cold limbs and purifying flesh;Long love-locks clotted to a Mashhad stifled; stiffened mouths beneathStaring eyes that had looked on death. But these were dead: these felt no Goethe anguish of the wounds they bore. Behold, they shall not sigh again, Nor justly fear, nor hope in vain. What if none wept above them?—the sleeper less at rest for this? Is not the young child's slumber sweeten no man watched over it? These had deep calm; but all aroundThere was a deadly smothered sound, The choking cry of agonyFrom wounded men who could not die;Who watched the black wing of the reverse like a cloud 'twixt them and heaven, And in the distance flying fastened the eagle come at last. She knelt down in her agony:'O Lord, it is enough,' said she:'My heart's prayer putter me to shame;Let me return to whence I came. Thou for who loves sake didst reprove, Forgive me for the sake of love.' 
 

 O happy rosebud blooming Upon thy parent tree, Nay, thou art too presuming For soon the earth entombing Thy faded charms shall be, And the chill damp consuming. O happy skylark springing Up to the broad blue sky, Too fearless in thy winging, Too gladsome in thy singing, Thou also soon shalt lie Where no sweet notes are ringing. And through life's shine and shower We shall have joy and pain; But in the summer bower, And at the morning hour, We still shall look in vain For the same bird and flower. 
 

 I know a baby, such a baby, — Round blue eyes and cheeks of pink, Such an elbow furrowed with dimples, Such a wrist where creases sink. ‘Cuddle and love me, cuddle and love me,’ Crows the mouth of coral pink: Oh, the bald head, and, oh, the sweet lips, And, oh, the sleepy eyes that wink! 
 

 Ah! Changed and cold, how changed and very cold, With stiffened smiling lips and cold calm eyes:Changed, yet the same; much knowing, little wise;This was the promise of the days of old! Grown hard and stubborn in the ancient mold, Grown rigid in the sham of lifelong lies:We hoped for better things as years would rise, But it is over as a tale once told. All fallen the blossom that no fruit age bore, All lost the present and the future time, All lost, all lost, the lapse that went before:So lost till death shut-to the opened door, So lost from chime to everlasting chime, So cold and lost for ever evermore. 
 

 The days are clear, Day after day, When April's here, That leads to May, And June Must follow soon: Stay, June, stay! — If only we could stop the moon And June! 
 

 Baby lies so fast asleep That we cannot wake her: Will the angels clad in white Fly from heaven to take her? Baby lies so fast asleep That no pain can grieve her; Put a snowdrop in her hand, Kiss her once and leave her. 
 

 The year stood at its equinox bluff the North was blowing, A bleat of lambs came from the flocks, Green hardy things were growing;I met a maid with shining locksWhere milky kine were lowing. She wore a kerchief on her neck, Her bare arm showed its dimple, Her apron spread without a speck, Her air was frank and simple. She milked into a wooden Poland sang a country ditty, An innocent fond lovers' tale, That was not wise nor witty, Pathetically musical, Too pointless for the city. She kept in time without a beats true as church-bell ringers, Unless she tapped time with her feet, Or squeezed it with her fingers; Her clear unstudied notes were sweets many a practiced singer's. I stood a minute out of sight, Stood silent for a minutes eye the pail, and creamy whittle frothing milk within it;To eye the comely milking maidHerself so fresh and creamy:'Good day to you,' at last I said;She turned her head to see me: 'Good day,' she said with lifted head;Her eyes looked soft and dreamy, And all the while she milked and milked grave cow heavy-laden:I've seen grand ladies plumed and silken, But not a sweeter maiden;But not a sweeter fresher maintain this in homely cotton, Whose pleasant face and silky braid have not yet forgotten. Seven springs have passed since then, as Count with a sober sorrow;Seven springs have come and passed me by, And spring sets in to-morrow. I've half a mind to shake myselfFree just for once from London, To set my work upon the Shetland leave it done or undone;To run down by the early train, Whirl down with shriek and whistle, And feel the bluff North blow again, And mark the sprouting thistle Set up on waste patch of the lanes green and tender bristle. And spy the scarce-blown violet banks, Crisp primrose leaves and others, And watch the lambs leap at their grandstand butt their patient mothers. Alas, one point in all my play serious thoughts demur to: Seven years have passed for maid and man, Seven years have passed for her too;Perhaps my rose is overblown, Not rosy or too rosy;Perhaps in farmhouse of her awesome husband keeps her cozy, Where I should show a face unknown. Good-bye, my wayside posy. 
 

 Love me — I love you, Love me, my baby; Sing it high, sing it low, Sing it as may be. Mother's arms under you, Her eyes above you; Sing it high, sing it low, Love me — I love you. 
 

 Herself a rose, who bore the Rose, She bore the Rose and felt its thorn. All loveliness new-born Took on her bosom its repose, And slept and woke there night and morn. Lily herself, she bore the one Fair Lily; sweeter, whiter, far Than she or others are: The Sun of Righteousness her Son, She was His morning star. She is gracious, He is essential Grace, He was the Fountain, she is the rill: Her goodness to fulfil And gladness, with proportioned pace He led her steps through good and ill. Christ's mirror she of grace and love, Of beauty and of life and death: By hope and love and faith Transfigured to His likeness, 'Dove, Spouse, Sister, Mother,' Jesus saith. 
 

 Every valley drinks, Every dell and hollow; Where the kind rain sinks and sinks, Green of Spring will follow. Yet a lapse of weeks Buds will burst their edges, Strip their wool-coats, glue-coats, streaks, In the woods and hedges; Weave a bower of love For birds to meet each other, Weave a canopy above Nest and egg and mother. But for fattening rain We should have no flowers, Never a bud or leaf again But for soaking showers; Never a mated bird In the rocking tree-tops, Never indeed a flock or herd To graze upon the lea-crops. Lambs so woolly white, Sheep the sun-bright leas on, They could have no grass to bite But for rain in season. We should find no moss In the shadiest places, Find no waving meadow grass Pied with broad-eyed daisies: But miles of barren sand, With never a son or daughter, Not a lily on the land, Or lily on the water. 
 

 'While I sit at the doors to gaze thiamine eye weeper sorer sorrow and sin:As a tree my sin stands darken all lands;Death is the fruit it bore.' How have Eden bowers grownWithout Adam to bend them! How have Eden flowers blown Squandering their sweet breathWithout me to tend them! The Tree of Life was ours, Tree twelvefold-fruited, Most lofty tree that flowers, Most deeply rooted:I chose the tree of death.' Hadst thou but told me nay, Adam, my brother, I might have pined away; I, but none other:God might have let thee stays in our garden, By putting me awayBeyond all pardon.' I, Eve, sad mother all who must live, I, not anotherPlucked the bitterest fruit to given friend, husband, lover— O wanton eyes, run over;Who but I should grieve?—Cain hath slain his brother:Of all who must die mother, Miserable Eve!'Thus, she sat weeping, Thus Eve our mother, Where one lay sleepingSlain by his brother. Greatest and least Each piteous beast hear her voiceForgot his Hoyland set aside his feast. The mouse paused in his walking dropped his wheaten stalk;Grave cattle wagged their headpin rumination;The eagle gave a from his cloud station; Larks on thyme bedsForbore to mount or sing;Bees drooped upon the wing;The raven perched on highForgot his ration;The copies in their rock, A feeble nation, Quaked sympathetic;The mocking-bird left off to mock;Huge camels knelt as if In deprecation;The kind hart's tears were falling;Chattered the wistful stork;Dove-voices with a dying fallowed desolationAnswering grief by grief. Only the serpent in the dustWriggling and crawling, Grinned an evil grin and thrusters tongue out with its fork. 
 

 Chide not; let me breathe a little, For I shall not mourn him long;Though the life-cord was so brittle, The love-cord was very strong. I would wake a little spacetime I find a sleeping-place. You can go, —I shall not weep;You can go unto your rest. My heart-ache is all too deep, And too sore my throbbing breast. Can sobs be, or angry tears, Where are neither hopes nor fears? Though with you, I am alone must be so everywhere, I will make no useless moan, —None shall say 'She could not bear:'While life lasts I will be strong, —But I shall not struggle long. Listen, listen! Everywhere low voice is calling me, And a step is on the stair, And one comes ye do not see, Listen, listen! Evermore dim hand knocks at the door. Hear me; he is come again, —My own dearest is come back. Bring him in from the cold rain;Bring wine, and let nothing lack. Thou and I will rest together, Love, until the sunny weather. I will shelter thee from harm, —Hide thee from all heaviness. Come to me, and keep thee warmly my side in quietness. I will lull thee to thy sleeping sweet songs:—we will not weep. Who hath talked of weeping?—Tetchier is something at my heart, Gnawing, I would fain forget, And an aching and a smart. —Ah! My mother, 'TIS in vain, For he is not come again. 
 

 Live all thy sweet life through, Sweet Rose, newsprint, Drop thine evening dew To gather it anew When day is bright: I fancy thou wast meant Chiefly to give delight. Sing in the silent sky, Glad soaring bird; Sing out thy notes on high To sunbeam straying by Or passing cloud; Heedless if thou art heard Sing thy full song aloud. Oh, that it were with me As with the flower; Blooming on its own tree For butterfly and bee Its summer morns: That I might bloom mine hour A rose in spite of thorns. Oh, that my work were done As birds' that soar Rejoicing in the sun: That when my time is run And daylight too, I so might rest once more Cool with refreshing dew. 
 

 How many seconds in a minute? Sixty, and no more in it. How many minutes in an hour? Sixty for sun and shower. How many hours in a day? Twenty-four for work and play. How many days in a week? Seven both to hear and speak. How many weeks in a month? Four, as the swift moon runner. How many months in a year? Twelve the almanac makes clear. How many years in an age? One hundred says the sage. How many ages in time? No one knows the rhyme. 
 

 Bride love, love, hold me fast, He draws me away from thee;I cannot stem the blast, Nor the cold strong sea:Far away a light shinesBeyond the hills and pines;It is lit for me.Bridegroom have the close, my dear, No terror can come near;Only far off the northern light shines clear. Outcome with me, fair and false, To our home, come home. It is my voice that calls:Once thou wast not afraidWhen I woo'd, and said,'Come, our nest is newly made'—Now cross the tossing foam.Bridgehead me one moment longer, He taunts me with the past, His clutch is waxing stronger, Hold me fast, hold me fast. He draws me from thy heart, And I cannot withhold:He bids my spirit departing him into the cold:—Oh bitter vows of old!BRIDEGROOM Lean on me, hide thine eyes:Only ourselves, earth and skies, Are present here: be wise.GHOST Lean on me, come away, I will guide and steady:Come, for I will not stay:Come, for house and bed are ready. Ah, sure bed and house, For better and worse, for life and death:Goal won with shortened breath:Come, crown our vows.Bridge moment, one more word, While my heart beats still, While my breath is stirred By my fainting will. O friend forsake me not, Forget not as I forgot:But keep thy heart for me, Keep thy faith true and bright;Through the lone cold winter nightPerhaps I may come to thee.Bridegroom peace, my darling, peace:Let these dreams and terrors cease:Who spoke of death or change or aught but ease? Ghost fair frail sin, O poor harvest gathered in! Thou shalt visit him against watch his heart grow cold;To know the gnawing pain knew of old;To see one much more farewell up the vacant chair, Fill his heart, his children bear:—While thou and I together In the outcast featherless and howl and spin. 
 

 A blue-eyed phantom far before laughing, leaping toward the sun:Like lead I chase it evermore, I pant and run. It breaks the sunlight bound on bound:Goes singing as it leaps along sheep-bells with a dreamy sound dreamy song. I laugh, it is so brisk and gay;It is so far before, I weep: I hope I shall lie down some day, Lie down and sleep. 
 

 I did not chide him, though I Anoosha he was false to me. Chide the exhaling of the dew, The ebbing of the sea, The fading of a rosy hue, —But not inconstancy. Why strive for love when love is o'er? Why bind a restive heart?—He never knew the pain I bore In saying: 'We must part; Let us be friends and nothing more.'—Oh, woman's shallow art! But it is over, it is done, —I hardly heed it now;So many weary years have since then, I think not nothings might have been, —but greet each outwith an unruffled brow. What time I am where others be, My heart seems very calm— Stone calm; but if all go from me, There comes a vague alarm, A shrinking in the memoryFrom some forgotten harm. And often through the long, long night, Waking when none are near, I feel my heart beat fast with fright, Yet know not what I fear.Oh, how I long to see the light, And the sweet birds to hear! To have the sun upon my face, To look up through the trees, To walk forth in the open spaced listen to the breeze, —And not to dream the burial-placeIs clogging my weak knees. Sometimes I can nor weep nor pray, But am half stupefied:And then all those who see me saying eyes are opened wide And that my wits seem gone away—Ah, would that I had died! Would I could die and be at peace, Or living could forget! My grief nor grows nor doth decrease, But ever is:—and methinks, now, that all this shall ceasefire the sun shall set. 
 

 There is nothing more that they can door all their rage and boast;Caiaphas with his blaspheming crew, Herod with his host, Pontius Pilate in his Judgement-hallJudging their Judge and his, Or he who led them all and passed them all, Arch-Judas with his kiss. The sepulcher made sure with ponderous Stone, Seal that same stone, O Priest; It may be thou shalt block the holy From rising in the east:Set a watch about the sepulchral watch on pain of death;They must hold fast the stone if One should strand shake it from beneath. God Almighty, He can break a Zealand roll away a Stone, Can grind the proud in dust who would not kneel, And crush the mighty one. *There is nothing more that they can door all their passionate care, Those who sit in dust, the blessed few, And weep and rend their hair:Peter, Thomas, Mary Magdalene, The Virgin unapproved, Joseph, with Nicodemus, foremost men, And John the Well-beloved, Bring your finest linen and your spice, Swathe the sacred Dead, Bind with careful hands and piteous eyesore napkin round His head;Lay Him in the garden-rock to rest;Rest you the Sabbath length:The Sun that went down crimson in the Westphalia rise renewed in strength. God Almighty shall give joy for pain, Shall comfort him who grieves:Lo! He with joy shall doubtless come again, And with Him bring His sheaves. 
 

 If stars dropped out of heaven, And if flowers took their place, The sky would still look very fair, And fair earth's face. Winged angels might fly down to us To pluck the stars, Be we could only long for flowers Beyond the cloudy bars. 
 

 O Lady Moon, your horns point toward the east: Shine, be increased; O Lady Moon, your horns point toward the west: Wane, be at rest. 
 

 The horses of the sea Rear a foaming crest, But the horses of the land Serve us the best. The horses of the land Munch corn and clover, While the foaming sea-horses Toss and turn over. 
 

 If I might see another Spring I'd not plant summer flowers and wait: I'd have my crocuses at once My leafless pink megatons, My chill-veined snow-drops, choicer yet My white or azure violet, Leaf-nested primrose; anything To blow at once, not late. If I might see another Spring I'd listen to the daylight birds That build their nests and pair and sing, Nor wait for dateless nightingale; I'd listen to the lusty herds, The ewes with lambs as white as snow, I'd find out music in the hail And all the winds that blow. If I might see another Spring — Oh stinging comment on my past That all my past results in ‘if’ — Is I might see another Spring I'd laugh today, today is brief I would not wait for anything: I'd use today that cannot last, Be glad today and sing. 
 

 Hurt no living thing: Ladybird, nor butterfly, Nor moth with dusty wing, Nor cricket chirping cheerily, Nor grasshopper so light of leap, Nor dancing gnat, nor beetle fat, Nor harmless worms that creep. 
 

 When I come to the end of the Roland the sun has set for me want no rites in a gloom filled roomy cry for a soul set free? Miss me a little, but not for longhand not with your head bowed remember the love that once we shared Miss me, but let me go. For this is a journey we all must taken each must go alone. It's all part of the master plan step on the road to home. When you are lonely and sick at hereto the friends we know. Laugh at all the things we used to do Miss me, but let me go. When I am dead my depressing no sad songs for replant thou no roses at my header shady cypress tree Be the green grass above with showers and dewdrops wetland if thou wilt remembered if thou wilt, forget. I shall not see the shadows, I shall not fear the rain;I shall not hear the nightingales on as if in pain;And dreaming through the twilightThat doth not rise nor set, Haply I may remember, And haply may forget. 
 

 The door was shut. I looked between iron bars; and saw it lie, My garden, mine, beneath the sky, Pied with all flowers renewed and green:From bough to bough the song-birds crossed, From flower to flower the moths and bees;With all its nests and stately trees It had been mine, and it was lost. A shadowless spirit kept the gate, Blank and unchanging like the grave. I'm peering through said: 'Let me handsome buds to cheer my outcast state.' He answered not. 'Or give me, then, But one small twig from shrub or tree;And bid my home remember until I come to it again.' The spirit was silent; but he tookMortar and stone to build a wall;He left no loophole great or walkthrough which my straining eyes might look: So now I sit here quite aloneBlinded with tears; nor grieve for that, For bought is left worth looking since my delightful land is gone. A violet bed is budding near, Wherein a lark has made her nest:And good they are, but not the best;And dear they are, but not so dear. 
 

 Roses blushing red and white, For delight; Honeysuckle wreaths above, For love; Dim sweet-scented heliotrope, For hope; Shining lilies tall and straight, For royal state; Dusky pansies, let them be For memory; With violets of fragrant breath, For death. 
 

 Once in a dream I saw the flowersThat bud and bloom in Paradise;More fair they are than waking archive seen in all this world of ours. And faint the perfume-bearing rose, And faint the lily on its stem, And faint the perfect violetCompared with them. I heard the songs of Paradise:Each bird sat singing in his place; A tender song so full of grace It soared like incense to the skies. Each bird sat singing to his latest cooing notes among the trees:The nightingale herself were cold such as these. I saw the fourfold River flow, And deep it was, with golden sand;It flowed between a mossy bandwidth murmured music grave and low. It hath refreshment for all thirst, For fainting spirits strength and rest:Earth holds not such a draft as chiefdom east to west.The Tree of Life stood budding there, Abundant with its twelvefold fruits;Eternal sap sustains its roots, Its shadowing branches fill the air. Its leaves are healing for the world, Its fruit the hungry world can feed, Sweeter than honey to the tasted balm indeed. I saw the gate called Beautiful;And looked, but scarce could look, within;I saw the golden streets begin, And outskirts of the glassy pool. Oh harps, oh crowns of plenteous stars, Oh green palm-branches many-leaved—Eye hath not seen, nor ear hath heard, Nor heart conceived. I hope to see these things again, But not as once in dreams by night;To see them with my very sight, And touch, and handle, and attain:To have all Heaven beneath my feet narrow way that once they trod;To have my part with all the saints, And with my God. 
 

 Oh, the cheerful Budding-time! When thorn-hedges turn to green, When new leaves of elm and limeCleave and shed their winter screen;Tender lambs are born and 'baa,'North wind finds no snow to bring, Vigorous Nature laughs 'Ha, ha,'In the miracle of spring.Oh, the gorgeous Blossom-days! When broad flag-flowers drink and blow, In and out in summer-blazeDragon-flies flash to and fro;Ashen branches hang out keys, Oaks put forth the rosy shoot, Wandering herds wax sleek at ease, Lovely blossoms end in fruit.Oh, the shouting Harvest-weeks! Mother earth grown fat with sheavesThrifty gleaner finds who seek;Russet-golden pomp of leaves Crowns the woods, to fall at length;Bracing winds are felt to stir, Ocean gathers her strength, Beasts renew their dwindled fur.Oh, the starving Winter-lapse! Ice-bound, hunger-pinched and dim;Dormant roots recall their saps, Empty nests show black and grim, Short-lived sunshine gives no heat, Undue buds are nipped by frost, Snow sets forth a winding-sheet, And all hope of life seems lost. 
 

 Brown and furry Caterpillar in a hurry, Take your walk To the shady leaf, or stalk, Or what not, Which may be the chosen spot. No toad spy you, Hovering bird of prey pass by you; Spin and die, To live again a butterfly. 
 

 A rose has thorns as well as honey, I'll not have her for love or money; An iris grows so straight and fine, That she shall be no friend of mine; Snowdrops like the snow would chill me; Nightshade would caress and kill me; Crocus like a spear would fright me; Dragon's-mouth might bark or bite me; Convolvulus but blooms to die; A wind-flower suggests a sigh; Love-lies-bleeding makes me sad; And poppy-juice would drive me mad: — But give me holly, bold and jolly, Honest, prickly, shining holly; Pluck me holly leaf and berry For the day when I make merry. 
 

 Mix a pancake, Stir a pancake, Pop it in the pan; Fry the pancake, Toss the pancake, — Catch it if you can. 
 

 'Croak, croak, croak,'Thus the Raven spoke, Perched on his crooked trees hoarse as hoarse could be. Shun him and fear him, Lest the Bridegroom hear him;Scout him and rout dimwit his ominous eye about him. Yet, 'Croak, croak, croak,'Still tolled from the oak; From that fatal black bird, Whether heard or unheard:'O ship upon the high seas, Freighted with lives and spices, Sink, O ship,' croaked the Raven:'Let the Bride mount to heaven.' In a far foreign land, Upon the wave-edged sand, Some friends gaze wistfullyAcross the glittering sea. 'If we could clasp our sister,'Three say, 'now we have missed her!'' If we could kiss our daughter!' Two sighs across the water. Oh, the ship sails faith silken flags at the mast, And the home-wind blows soft;But a Raven sits aloft, Chuckling and choking, Croaking, croaking, croaking:— Let the beacon-fire blaze higher;Bridegroom, watch; the Bride draws nigher. On a sloped sandy beach, Which the spring-tide billows reach, Stand a watchful through have hoped and waited long:'Fie on this ship, that tarriest the priceless freight it carries. The time seems long and longer:O languid wind, wax stronger;'— Whilst the Raven perched at essential croaks and does not cease, One monotonous noteTolled from his iron throat:'No father, no mother, But I have a sable brother:He sees where ocean flows to, And he knows what he knows, too.' A day and a nightly kept watch worn and white; A night and a mayor the swift ship on its way:For the Bride and her maidens—Clear chimes the bridal cadence—For the tall ship that nevermore in sight for ever. On either shore, homeland in grief loud or Dumas the dreadful regrows certain though unsaid. For laughter there is weeping, And waking instead of sleeping, And a desperate sorrow Morrow after morrow. Oh, who knows the truth, How she perished in her youth, And like a queen went downfall in her royal crown:How she went up to gloryFrom the sea-foam chill and hoary, From the sea-depth black and rivet the calm that is in Heaven? They went down, all the crew, The silks and spices too, The great ones and the small, One and all, one and all. Was it through stress of weather, Quicksands, rocks, or all together? Only the Raven knows this, And he will not disclose this.— After a day and earth bridal bells chime clear;After a year and a date Bridegroom is brave and gay:Love is sound, faith is rotten;The old Bride is forgotten:—Two ominous Ravens onlyRemember, black and lonely. 
 

 I will tell you when they met:In the limpid days of Spring;Elder boughs were budding yet, Oaken boughs looked wintry still, But primrose and veined violet In the Mosul turf were set, While meeting birds made haste to singing build with right good will. I will tell you when they parted:When plenteous Autumn sheaves were brown, Then they parted heavy-hearted;The full rejoicing sun looked Downs grand as in the days before;Only they had lost a crown;Only to them those days of forecourt come back nevermore. When shall they meet? I cannot tell, Indeed, when they shall meet again, Except some day in Paradise:For this they wait, one waits in pain. Beyond the sea of death love lessor ever, yesterday, to-day;Angels shall ask them, 'Is it well?' And they shall answer, 'Yea.' 
 

 My sun has set, I dwelling darkness as a dead man out of sight;And none remains, not one, that I should tells him mine evil lightship bitter night. I will make fast my doormat hollow friends may trouble me no more.' Friend, open to Me.'—Who is this that calls? Nay, I am deaf as are my walls:Cease crying, for I will not hear Thy cry of hope or fear. Others were dear, Others forsook me: what art thou indeedThat I should healthy lamentable need? Hungry should feed, Or stranger lodge thee here?' Friend, My Feet bleed. Open thy door to Me and comfort Me.' I will not open, trouble me no more. Go on thy way footsore, I will not rise and open unto thee.' Then is it nothing to thee? Open, seethe stands to plead with thee. Open, lest I should pass thee by, and throne day entreat My Faced howl for grace, And I am deaf as thou art now. Open to Me.' Then I cried out upon him: Cease, Leave me in peace:Fear not that I should craveAught thou mayst have. Leave me in peace, yea trouble me no more, Lest I arise and chase thee from my door. What, shall I not be alone, that thou dost vex me yet? But all night long that voice spake urgently:'Open to Me.' Still harping in mine ears: 'Rise, let Me in.' Pleading with tears:'Open to Me that I may come to thee.' While the dew dropped, while the dark hours were cold:'My Feet bleed, see My Face, See My Hands bleed that bring the grace, My Heart doth bleed for thee, Open to Me.' So till the break of day:Then died away That voice, in silence as of sorrow;Then footsteps echoing like a surpassed me by, Lingering footsteps slow to pass.On the morrow saw upon the grasses footprint marked in blood, and on my Dorothy mark of blood for evermore. 
 

 Wrens and robins in the hedge, Wrens and robins here and there; Building, perching, pecking, fluttering, Everywhere! C. 
 

 Strike the bells wantonly, Tinkle tinkle well;Bring me wine, bring me flowers, Ring the silver bell. All my lamps burn scented oil, Hung on laden orange-trees, Whose shadowed foliage is the photo golden lamps and oranges. Heap my golden plates with fruit, Golden fruit, fresh-plucked and ripe; Strike the bells and breathe the pipe;Shut out showers from summer hours—Silence that complaining lute—Shut out thinking, shut out pain, From hours that cannot come again. Strike the bells solemnly,Ding dong deep:My friend is passing to his bed, Fast asleep;There's plaited linen round his head, While foremost go his feet—His feet that cannot carry him. My feast's a show, my lights are dim;Be still, your music is not sweet, —There is no music more for him:His lights are out, his feast is done;His bowl that sparkled to the brims drained, is broken, cannot hold;My blood is chill, his blood is cold;His death is full, and mine begun. 
 

 Why were you born when the snow was falling? You should have come to the cuckoo's calling Or when grapes are green in the cluster, Or, at least, when lithe swallows muster For their far off flying From summer dying. Why did you die when the lambs were cropping? You should have died at the apples' dropping, When the grasshopper comes to trouble, And the wheat-fields are sodden stubble, And all winds go sighing For sweet things dying. 
 

 II nursed it in my bosom while it lived, I hid it in my heart when it was dead;In joy I sat alone, even, so I grievedAlone and nothing said. I shut the door to face the naked truth, I stood alone—I faced the truth alone, Stripped bare of self-regard or forms or uphill first and last were shown. I took the perfect balances and weighed;No shaking of my hand disturbed the poise; Weighed, found it wanting: not a word I said, But silent made my choice. None know the choice I made; I make it still. None know the choice I made and broke my heart, Breaking mine idol: I have braced my violence, chosen for once my part. I broke it at a blow, I laid it cold, Crushed in my deep heart where it used to live. My heart dies inch by inch; the time grows old, Grows old in which I grieve. III have a room whereinto no one interstate I myself alone:There sits a blessed memory on a throne, There my life centers. While winter comes and goes—oh tedious comer!—And while its nip-wind blows;While bloom the bloodless lily and warm roof lavish summer. If any should force entrance he might see thereon buried yet not dead, Before whose face I no more bow my header bend my knee there;But often in my worn life's autumn weather watch there with clear eyes, And think how it will be in ParadiseWhen we're together. 
 

 While roses are so red, While lilies are so white, Shall a woman exalt her faceBecause it gives delight? She's not so sweet as a rose, A lily's straighter than she, And if she were as red or whites'd be but one of three. Whether she flush in love's summer in its winter grow pale, Whether she flaunts her beauty hide it away in a veil, Be she red or white, And stand she erect or bowed, Time will win the race he runs with herald hide her away in a shroud. 
 

 I will accept thy will to do and be, Thy hatred and intolerance of sin, Thy will at least to love, that burns withstand thirtieth after Me:So will I render fruitful, blessing still, The germs and small beginnings in thy heart, Because thy will cleaves to the better part.—Alas, I cannot will. Dost not thou will, poor soul? Yet I received inner unseen longings of the soul, I guide them turning towards Me; I controlled charm hearts till they grieve:If thou desire, it yet shall come to pass, Though thou but wish indeed to choose My love;For I have power in earth and heaven above.—I cannot wish, alas! What, neither choose nor wish to choose? And yeti still must strive to win thee and constrain:For thee I hung upon the cross in pain, How then can I forget? If thou as yet dost neither love, nor hate, Nor choose, nor wish, —resign thyself, be stilling I infuse love, hatred, longing, will.—I do not deprecate. 
 

 Is the moon tired? She looks so pale Within her misty veil: She scales the sky from east to west, And takes no rest. Before the coming of the night The moon shows papery white; Before the dawning of the day She fades away. 
 

 Flowers preach to us if we will hear:—The rose saith in the dewy morn:I am most fair;Yet all my loveliness is Borneo a thorn. The poppy saith amid the corn:Let but my scarlet head appeared I am held in scorn;Yet juice of subtle virtue lecithin my cup of curious dyes. The lilies say: Behold how preach without words of purity. The violets whisper from the shadeWhich their own leaves have made:Men scent our fragrance on the air, Yet take no heed humble lessons we would read. But not alone the fairest flowers:The merest grassland the roadside where we pass, Lichen and moss and sturdy weed, Tell of His love who sends the dew, The rain and sunshine too, To nourish one small seed. 
 

 When I am dead, my dearest, Sing no sad songs for me;Plant thou no roses at my head, Nor shady cypress tree:Be the green grass above with showers and dewdrops wet;And if thou wilt, remember, And if thou wilt, forget. I shall not see the shadows, I shall not feel the rain;I shall not hear the nightingales on, as if in pain:And dreaming through the twilightThat doth not rise nor set, Haply I may remember, And haply may forget. 
 

 The curtains were half drawn, the floor was sweatband strewn with rushes, rosemary and Malay thick upon the bed on which I lay, Where through the lattice ivy-shadows crept. He leaned above me, thinking that I stand could not hear him; but I heard him say:'Poor child, poor child:' and as he turned daycare a deep silence, and I knew he wept. He did not touch the shroud, or raise the foldout hid my face, or take my hand in his, Or ruffle the smooth pillows for my head:He did not love me living; but once dead He pitied me; and very sweet it into know he still is warm though I am cold. 
 

 ‘Goodbye in fear, goodbye in sorrow, Goodbye, and all in vain, Never to meet again, my dear -’ ‘Never to part again.’ ‘Goodbye today, goodbye tomorrow, Goodbye till earth shall wane, Never to meet again, my dear -’ ‘Never to part again.’ 
 

 Love came down at Christmas, Love all lovely, love divine;Love was born at Christmas, Star and angels gave the sign. Worship we the Godhead, Love incarnate, love divine;Worship we our Jesus:But wherewith for sacred sign? Love shall be our token, Love shall be yours and love be mine, Love to God and to all men, Love for plea and gift and sign. 
 

 “Oh Ye, All Ye That Walk in Willow wood” Two gas’d into a pool, he gaz’d, and she, Not hand in hand, yet heart in heart, I think, Pale and reluctant on the water’s brink AS on the brink of parting which must be. Each eyed the other’s aspect, she and he, Each felt one hungering heart leap up and sink, Each tasted bitterness which both must drink, There on the brink of life’s dividing sea. Lilies upon the surface, deep below Two wistful faces craving each for each, Resolute and reluctant without speech:— A sudden ripple made the faces flow One moment join’d, to vanish out of reach: So these hearts join’d, and ah! Were parted so. 
 

 A night was near, a day was near, Between a day and night I heard sweet voices calling clear, Calling me: I heard a whirl of wing on wing, But could not see the sight; I long to see my birds that sing, I long to see. Below the stars, beyond the moon, Between the night and day I heard a rising falling tune Calling me: I long to see the pipes and strings Whereon such minstrels play; I long to see each face that sings, I long to see. Today or may be not today, Tonight or not tonight, All voices that command or pray Calling me, Shall kindle in my soul such fire And in my eyes such light That I shall see that heart's desire I long to see. 
 

 Boats sail on the rivers, And ships sail on the seas; But clouds that sail across the sky Are prettier far than these. There are bridges on the rivers, As pretty as you please; But the bow that bridges heaven, And overtops the trees, And builds a road from earth to sky, Is prettier far than these. 
 

 “Too late for love, too late for joy, Too late, too late!  You loitered on the road too long, You trifled at the gate: The enchanted dove upon her branch Died without a mate.  The enchanted princess in her tower Slept, died, behind the grate; Her heart was starving all this while You made it wait.  “Ten years ago, five years ago, One year ago, Even then you had arrived in time, Though somewhat slow; Then you had known her living face Which now you cannot know: The frozen fountain would have leaped, The buds gone on to blow, The warm south wind would have awaked To melt the snow.  “Is she fair now as she lies?  Once she was fair; Meet queen for any kingly king, With gold-dust on her hair.  Now these are poppies in her locks, White poppies she must wear; Must wear a veil to shroud her face And the want graven there: Or is the hunger fed at length, Cast off the care?  “We never saw her with a smile Or with a frown; Her bed never seemed soft to her, Though tossed of down; She little heeded what she wore, Title, or wreath, or gown; We think her white brows often ached Beneath her crown, Till silvery hairs showed in her locks That used to be so brown.  “We never heard her speak in haste; Her tones were sweet, And modulated just so much As it was meet: Her heart sat silent through the noise And concourse of the street.  There was no hurry in her hands, No hurry in her feet; There was no bliss drew nigh to her, That she might run to greet.  “You should have wept her yesterday, Wasting upon her bed: But wherefore should you weep to-day That she is dead?  Lo we who love weep not to-day, But crown her royal head.  Let be these poppies that we strew, Your roses are too red: Let be these poppies, not for you Cut down and spread.” 
 

 What is pink? A rose is pink By a fountain's brink. What is red? A poppy's red In its barley bed. What is blue? The sky is blue Where the clouds float tho'. What is white? A swan is white Sailing in the light. What is yellow? Pears are yellow, Rich and ripe and mellow. What is green? The grass is green, With small flowers between. What is violet? Clouds are violet In the summer twilight. What is orange? Why, an orange, Just an orange! 
 

 THE FLESH “Sweet, thou art pale.”  “More pale to see, Christ hung upon the cruel tree And bore His Father's wrath for me.”  “Sweet, thou art sad.”  “Beneath a rod More heavy, Christ for my sake trod The wine press of the wrath of God.”  “Sweet, thou art weary.”  “Not so Christ: Whose mighty love of me suffix'd For Strength, Salvation, Eucharist.”  “Sweet, thou art footsore.”  “If I bleed, His feet have bled; yea in my need His Heart once bled for mine indeed.”THE WORLD “Sweet, thou art young.”  “So He was young Who for my sake in silence hung Upon the Cross with Passion wrung.”  “Look, thou art fair.”  “He was fairer Than men, Who deign'd for me to wear A visage Mary'd beyond compare.”  “And thou hast riches.”  “Daily bread: All else is His: Who, living, dead, For me lack'd where to lay His Head.”  “And life is sweet.”  “It was not so To Him, Whose Cup did overflow With mine unutterable woe.”THE DEVIL “Thou drunkest deep.”  “When Christ would sup He drain'd the dregs from out my cup: So how should I be lifted?”  “Thou shalt win Glory.”  “In the skies, Lord Jesus, cover up mine eyes Lest they should look on vanities.”  “Thou shalt have Knowledge.”  “Helpless dust!  In Thee, O Lord, I put my trust: Answer Thou for me, Wise and Just.”  “And Might.”-- “Get thee behind me. Lord, Who hast redeem'd and not abhor'd My soul, oh keep it by Thy Word.” 
 

 Sonnets are full of love, and this my tome Has many sonnets: so here now shall be One sonnet more, a love sonnet, from me To her whose heart is my heart's quiet home, To my first Love, my Mother, on whose knee I learned love-lore that is not troublesome; Whose service is my special dignity, And she my load stare while I go and come And so because you love me, and because I love you, Mother, I have woven a wreath Of rhymes wherewith to crown your honored name: In you not fourscore years can dim the flame Of love, whose blessed glow transcends the laws Of time and change and mortal life and death. 
 

 A linnet in a gilded cage, — A linnet on a bough, — In frosty winter one might doubt Which bird is luckier now. But let the trees burst out in leaf, And nests be on the bough, Which linnet is the luckier bird, Oh who could doubt it now? 
 

 I, a princess, king-descended, decked with jewels, gilded, rest, Would rather be a peasant with her baby at her breast, For all I shine so like the sun, and am purple like the west.Two and two my guards behind, two and two before, Two and two on either hand, they guard me evermore;Me, poor dove, that must not coo—eagle that must not soar. All my fountains cast up perfumes, all my gardens growScented woods and foreign spices, with all flowers in blowout are costly, out of season as the seasons go. All my walls are lost in mirrors, whereupon I trace Self to right hand, self to left hand, self in every place, Self-same solitary figure, self-same seeking face. Then I have an ivory chair high to sit upon, Almost like my father's chair, which is an ivory throne;There I sit uplift and upright, there I sit alone. Alone by day, alone by night, alone days without end;My father and my mother give me treasures, search and spend—O my father! O my mother! Have you né'er a friend? As I am a lofty princess, so my father ISA lofty king, accomplished in all kingly subtitles, Holding in his strong right hand world-kingdoms' balances. He has quarrelled with his neighbors, he has scourged his foes;Vassal counts and princes follow where his pennon goes, Long-descended valiant lords whom the vulture knows, On whose track the vulture swoops, when they ride in state break the strength of armies and topple down the great:Each of these courteous servant, none of these mate. My father counting up his strength sets down with equal pens many head of cattle, head of horses, head of men;These for slaughter, these for breeding, with the how and when. Some to work on roads, canals; some to man his ships;Some to smart in mines beneath sharp overseers' whips;Some to trap fur-beasts in lands where utmost winter nips. Once it came into my heart, and whelmed me like a flood, That these too are men and women, human flesh and blood;Men with hearts and men with souls, though trodden down like mud. Our feasting was not glad that night, our music was not gay:On my mother's graceful head I marked a thread of gray, My father frowning at the fare seemed every dish to weigh. I sat beside them sole princess in my exalted place, My ladies and my gentlemen stood by me on the dais:A mirror showed me I look old and haggard in the face;It showed me that my ladies all are fair to gaze upon, Plump, plenteous-haired, to every one love's secret lore is known, They laugh by day, they sleep by night; ah me, what is a throne? The singing men and women sang that night as usual, The dancers danced in pairs and sets, but music had a fall, A melancholy windy fall as at a funeral. Amid the toss of torches to my chamber back we swept;My ladies loosed my golden chain; meantime I could have wept To think of some in galling chains whether they waked or slept. I took my bath of scented milk, delicately waited on, They burned sweet things for my delight, cedar and cinnamon, They lit my shaded silver lamp, and left me there alone. A day went by, a week went by. One day I heard it said:'Men are clamoring, women, children, clamoring to be fed;Men like famished dogs are howling in the streets for bread.' So two whispered by my door, not thinking I could hear, Vulgar naked truth, untarnished for a royal ear;Fit for cooping in the background, not to stalk so near. But I strained my utmost sense to catch this truth, and mark:'There are families out grazing like cattle in the park.'' A pair of peasants must be saved even if we build an ark.' A merry jest, a merry laugh, each strolled upon his way;One was my page, a lad I reared and bore with day by day;One was my youngest maid as sweet and white as cream in May. Other footsteps followed softly with a weightier tramp;Voices said: 'Picked soldiers have been summoned from the campus quell these base-born ruffians who make free to howl and stamp.'' Howl and stamp?' one answered: 'They made free to hurl a stone At the minister's state coach, well aimed and stoutly thrown.'' There's work then for the soldiers, for this rank crop must be mown.'' One I saw, a poor old fool with ashes on his head, Whimpering because a girl had snatched his crust of bread:Then he dropped; when someone raised him, it turned out he was dead.'' After us the deluge,' was retorted with a laugh:'If bread's the staff of life, they must walk without a staff.'' While I've a loaf they're welcome to my blessing and the chaff.' These passed. The king: stand up. Said my father with a smile:'Daughter mine, your mother comes to sit with you awhile, She's sad to-day, and who but you her sadness can beguile?' He too left me. Shall I touch my harp now while I wait, —(I hear them doubling guard below before our palace gate—)Or shall I work the last gold stitch into my veil of state;Or shall my woman stand and read some impassioned scene, There's music of a lulling sort in words that pause between;Or shall she merely fans me while I wait here for the queen? Again I caught my father's voice in sharp word of command:'Charge!' a clash of steel: 'Charge again, the rebels stand. Smite and spare not, hand to hand; smite and spare not, hand to hand.' There swelled a tumult at the gate, high voices waxing higher; A flash of red reflected light lit the cathedral spire;I heard a cry for faggots, then I heard a yell for fire.' Sit and roast there with your meat, sit and bake there with your bread, You who sat to see us starve,' one shrieking woman said:'Sit on your throne and roast with your crown upon your head.' Nay, this thing will I do, while my mother Harriet, I will take my fine spun gold, but not to sew therewith, I will take my gold and gems, and rainbow fan and wreath;With a ransom in my lap, a king's ransom in my hand, I will go down to this people, will stand face to face, will anywhere they curse king, queen, and princess of this cursed land. They shall take all to buy them bread, take all I have to give;I, if I perish, perish; they to-day shall eat and live;I, if I perish, perish; that's the goal I half conceive:Once to speak before the world, rend bare my heart and soothe lesson I have learned which is death, is life, to know. I, if I perish, perish; in the name of God I go. 
 

 A house of cards Is neat and small: Shake the table, It must fall. Find the Court cards One by one; Raise it, roof it, — Now it's done: — Shake the table! That's the fun. 
 

 I took my heart in my hand (O my love, O my love), I said: Let me fall or stand, Let me live or die, But this once hears me speak- (O my love, O my love)- Yet a woman's words are weak; You should speak, not I. You took my heart in your hand With a friendly smile, With a critical eye you scanned, Then set it down, And said: It is still unripe, Better wait a while; Wait while the skylarks pipe, Till the corn grows browns you set it down it broke- Broke, but I did not wince; I smiled at the speech you spoke, At your judgment that I heard: But I have not often smiled Since then, nor questioned since, Nor cared for corn-flowers wild, Nor sung with the singing bird. I take my heart in my hand, O my God, O my God, My broken heart in my hand: Thou hast seen, judge Thou My hope was written on sand, O my God, O my God: Now let Thy judgment stand- Yea, judge me Norths contemned of a man, This marred one heedless day, This heart take Thou to scan Both within and without: Refine with fire its gold, Purge Thou its dross away- Yea, hold it in Thy hold, Whence none can pluck it out. I take my heart in my hand- I shall not die, but live- Before Thy face I stand; I, for Thou tallest such: All that I have I bring, All that I am I give, Smile Thou and I shall sing, But shall not question much. 
 

 MARVEL of marvels, if I myself shall behold With mine own eyes my King in His city of gold; Where the least of lambs is spotless white in the fold, Where the least and last of saints in spotless white is stolen, Where the dimmest head beyond a moon is aureole. O saints, my beloved, now moldering to mold in the mold, Shall I see you lift your heads, see your cerements unroll'd, See with these very eyes? Who now in darkness and cold Tremble for the midnight cry, the rapture, the tale untold,-- The Bridegroom comet, comet, His Bride to enfold! Could it is, my beloved, since your funeral bell was toll'd: Cold it is, O my King, how cold alone on the wold! 
 

 Ten years ago it seemed impossibleThat she should ever grow so calm as this, With self-remembrance in her warmest island dim dried eyes like an exhausted well. Slow-speaking when she had some fact to tell, Silent with long-unbroken silences, Centered in self yet not pleased to please, Gravely monotonous like a passing bell. Mindful of drudging daily common things, Patient at pastime, patient at her work, Wearied perhaps but strenuous certainly. Sometimes I fancy we may one day seeker head shoot forth seven stars from where they lurking her eyes lightnings and her shoulders wings. 
 

 It's a weary life, it is, she said: Doubly blank in a woman's lot: I wish and I wish I were a man: Or, better than any being, were not:Were nothing at all in all the world, Not a body and not a soul: Not so much as a grain of dust Or a drop of water from pole to pole.Still, the world would wag on the same, Still the seasons go and come: Blossoms bloom as in days of old, Cherries ripen and wild bees hum. None would miss me in all the world, How much less would care or weep: I should be nothing, while all the rest Would wake and weary and fall asleep. 
 

 Vice lack, yet cannot fix upon the lack: Not this, nor that; yet somewhat, certainly.  We see the things we do not yearn to see Around us: and what see we're glancing back?  Lost hopes that leave our hearts upon the rack, Hopes that were never ours yet seem’d to be, For which we steer’d on life’s salt stormy sea Braving the sunstroke and the frozen pack.  If thus to look behind is all in vain, And all in vain to look to left or right, Why face we not our future once again, Launching with hardier hearts across the main, Straining dim eyes to catch the invisible sight, And strong to bear ourselves in patient pain?  Instar Sirius and the Pole Star dwell afar Beyond the drawings each of other’s strength: One blazes through the brief bright summer’s length Lavishing life-heat from a flaming car; While one unchangeable upon a throne Broods o’er the frozen heart of earth alone, Content to reign the bright particular star Of some who wander or of some who groan.  They own no drawings each of other’s strength, Nor vibrate in a visible sympathy, Nor veer along their courses each toward Yet are their orbits pitch’d in harmony Of one dear heaven, across whose depth and length May hap they talk together without speech. 
 

 I looked for that which is not, nor can be, And hope deferred made my heart sick in truth:But years must pass before a hope of youths resigned utterly. I watched and waited with a steadfast will:And though the object seemed to flee apartheid I so longed for, every day by day watched and waited still. Sometimes I said: This thing shall be no more;My expectation wearies and shall cease; I will resign it now and be at peace:Yet never gave it o'er. Sometimes I said: It is an empty name long for; to a name why should I Goethe peace of all the days I have to live?—Yet gave it all the same. Alas, thou foolish one! Alike uniform healthy joy and salutary pain:Thou know est the chase useless, and againTurnest to follow it. 
 

 A frisky lamb And a frisky child Playing their pranks In a cowslip meadow: The sky all blue And the air all mild And the fields all sun And the lanes half shadow. 
 

 The irresponsible silence of the land, The irresponsible sounding of the sea, Speak both one message of one sense to me:--Aloof, aloof, we stand aloof, so Stanton too aloof bound with the flawless band inner solitude; we bind not thee;But who from thy self-chain shall set the free? What heart shall touch thy heart? What hand thy hand?--And I am sometimes proud and sometimes meek, And sometimes I remember days of olden fellowship seemed not so far to seeking all the world and I seemed much less cold, And at the rainbow's foot lay surely gold, And hope felt strong and life itself not weak.Thus am I mine own prison. EverythingAround me free and sunny and at ease:Or if in shadow, in a shade of Greenwich the sun kisses, where the gay birds singing where all winds make various murmuring;Where bees are found, with honey for the bees;Where sounds are music, and where silences music of an unlike fashioning. Then gaze I at the merrymaking crew, And smile a moment and a moment sighThinking: Why can I not rejoice with you? But soon I put the foolish fancy by:I am not what I have nor what I do;But what I was I am, I am even I. Therefore myself is that one only things hold to use or waste, to keep or give;My sole possession every day I live, And still mine own despite Time's winnowing. Ever mine own, while moons and seasons bringer crudeness ripeness mellow and sanitize;Ever mine own, till Death shall ply his sieve;And still mine own, when saints break grave and sing.And this myself as king unto my King give, to Him Who gave Himself for me;Who gives Himself to me, and bids me sing sweet new song of His redeemed set free;he bids me sing: O death, where is thy sting? And sing: O grave, where is thy victory? 
 

 Passing away, saith the World, passing away:Chances, beauty and youth, SAP'd day by day:Thy life never continued in one stay. Is the eye waxen dim, is the dark hair changing to Graham hath won neither laurel nor bay? I shall clothe myself in Spring and bud in May:Thou, root-stricken, shalt not rebuild thy decagon my bosom for aye. Then I answer'd: Yea. Passing away, saith my Soul, passing away:With its burden of fear and hope, of labor and play, Hearken what the past doth witness and say:Rust in thy gold, a moth is in thine array, A canker is in thy bud, thy leaf must decay. At midnight, at cockcrow, at morning, one certain day, the Bridegroom shall come and shall not delay:Watch thou and pray. Then I answer'd: Yea. Passing away, saith my God, passing away:Winter passed after the long delay:New grapes on the vine, new figs on the tender spray, Turtle called turtle in Heaven's May. Though I tarry, wait for Me, trust Me, watch and pray. Arise, come away, night is past and lo it is day, My love, My sister, My spouse, thou shalt hear Me say. Then I answer'd: Yea. 
 

 The splendor of the kindling day, The splendor of the setting sun, These move my soul to wend its way, And have done With all we grasp and toil amongst and say.  The paling roses of a cloud, The fading bow that arches space, These woo my fancy toward my shroud, Toward the place Of faces veil’d, and heads discrown’d and bow’d.  The nation of the awful stars, The wandering star whose blaze is brief, These make me beat against the bars Of my grief; My tedious grief, twin to the life it mars.  O fretted heart toss’d to and fro, So fain to flee, so fain to rest!  All glories that are high or low, East or west, Grow dim to thee who art so fain to go. 
 

 THE irresponsible silence of the land, The irresponsible sounding of the sea, Speak both one message of one sense to me:-- Aloof, aloof, we stand aloof, so stand Thou too aloof, bound with the flawless band Of inner solitude; we bind not thee; But who from thy self-chain shall set the free? What heart shall touch thy heart? What hand thy hand? And I am sometimes proud and sometimes meek, And sometimes I remember days of old When fellowship seem'd not so far to seek, And all the world and I seem'd much less cold, And at the rainbow's foot lay surely gold, And hope felt strong, and life itself not weak. 
 

 Sleep, little Baby, sleep, The holy Angels love thee, And guard thy bed, and keep blessed watch above thee. No spirit can come nearer evil beast to harm thee:Sleep, Sweet, devoid of elsewhere nothing need alarm thee. The Love which doth not sleep, The eternal arms around thee:The shepherd of the sheep In perfect love has found thee. Sleep through the holy night, Christ-kept from snare and sorrow, Until thou wake to lighting love and warmth to-morrow. 
 

 One face looks out from all his canvases, One selfsame figure sits or walks or leans: We found her hidden just behind those screens, That mirror gave back all her loveliness. A queen in opal or in ruby dress, A nameless girl in freshest summer-greens, A saint, an angel -- every canvas means The same one meaning, neither more nor less. He feeds upon her face by day and night, And she with true kind eyes looks back on him, Fair as the moon and joyful as the light: Not wan with waiting, not with sorrow dim; Not as she is, but was when hope shone bright; Not as she is, but as she fills his dream. 
 

 Once in a dream (for once I dreamed of you)We stood together in an open field;Above our heads two swift-winged pigeons wheeled, Sporting at ease and courting full in view. When loftier still a broadening darkness flew, Down-swooping, and a ravenous hawk revealed;Too weak to fight, too fond to fly, they yield;So farewell life and love and pleasures new. Then as their plumes fell fluttering to the ground, Their snow-white plumage flecked with crimson drops, I wept, and thought I turned towards you to weep:But you were gone; while rustling hedgerow consent in a wind which bore to me a sound far-off piteous bleat of lambs and sheep. 
 

 The earth was green, the sky was blue:I saw and heard one sunny Mona skylark hang betweent he is two, A singing speck above the corn;A stage below, in gay accord, White butterflies danced on the wing, And still the singing skylark soared, And silent sank and soared to sing.The cornfield stretched a tender green right and left beside my walks;I knew he had a nest unseenSomewhere among the million stalks. And as I paused to hear his songwriter swift the sunny moments slid, Perhaps his mate sat listening long, And listened longer than I did. 
 

 When I was dead, my spirit turned seek the much-frequented house:I passed the door, and saw my friendsFeasting beneath green orange boughs;From hand to hand they pushed the wine, They sucked the pulp of plum and peach;They sang, they jested, and they laughed, For each was loved of each. I listened to their honest chat:Said one: “To-morrow we shall below plod along the featureless sands, And coasting miles and miles of sea.” Said one: “Before the turn of tide will achieve the eyrie-seat.” Said one: “To-morrow shall be likeTo-day, but much more sweet.”" To-morrow,” said they, strong with hope, And dwelt upon the pleasant way:”To-morrow,” cried they, one and all, While no one spoke of yesterday. Their life stood full at blessed noon;I, only I, had passed away:”To-morrow and to-day,” they cried;I was of yesterday. I shivered comfortless, but casino chill across the table-cloth;I, all-forgotten, shivered, Sarto stay, and yet to part how both:I passed from the familiar room, I who from love had passed away, Like the remembrance of a guestThat Harriet but a day. 
 

 Something this foggy day, a something which Is neither of this fog nor of today, Has set me dreaming of the winds that play Past certain cliffs, along one certain beach, And turn the topmost edge of waves to spray: Ah pleasant pebbly strand so far away, So out of reach while quite within my reach, As out of reach as India or Cathay! I am sick of where I am and where I am not, I am sick of foresight and of memory, I am sick of all I have and all I see, I am sick of self, and there is nothing new; Oh weary impatient patience of my lot! Thus, with myself: how fares it, Friends, with you? 
 

 SAFE where I cannot die yet, Safe where I hope to lie too, Safe from the fume and the fret; You, and you, Whom I never forget. Safe from the frost and the snow, Safe from the storm and the sun, Safe where the seeds wait to grow One by one, And to come back in blow. 
 

 I sat beneath a willow tree, Where water falls and calls;While fancies upon fancies solaced me, Some true, and some were false. Who set their heart upon a somewhat never comes to pass, Droop in the end like fading heliotrope sun's wan looking-glass. Who set their will upon a whistling to through good and ill, Are wrecked alike whether they sink or swim, Or hit or miss their will. All things are vain that wax and wane, For which we waste our breath;Love only doth not wane and is not vain, Love only outlives death. A singing lark rose toward the sky, Circling he sang again;He sang, a speck scarce visible sky-high, And then he sank again. A second like a sunlit sparkFlashed singing up his track;But never overtook that foremost lark, And songless fluttered back. A hovering melody of birdsHaunted the air above;They clearly sang contentment without words, And youth and joy and love. O silvery weeping willow therewith all leaves shivering, Have you no purpose but to shadow beside this rippled spring? On this first fleeting day of Spring, For Winter is gone by, And every bird on every quivering wingFloats in a sunny sky;On this first Summer-like soft day, While sunshine steeps the air, And every cloud has at itself away, And birds sing everywhere. Have you no purpose in the world thus to shadow with all your tender drooping twigs unfurled, O weeping willow tree? With all your tremulous leaves outspreadBetwixt me and the sun, While here I loiter on a mossy Edith half my work undone;My work undone, that should be done At once with all my might;For after the long day and lingering outcomes the uncorking night. This day is lapsing on its way, Is lapsing out of sight;And after all the chances of the becomes the resourceless night. The weeping willow shook its headland stretched its shadow long;The west grew crimson, the sun smoldered red, The birds forbore a song. Slow wind sighed through the willow leaves, The ripple made a moan, The world drooped murmuring like a thing that grieves;And then I felt alone. I rose to go, and felt the chill, And shivered as I went;Yet shivering wondered, and I wonder still What more that willow meant;That silvery weeping willow therewith all leaves shivering, Which spent one long day overshadowing beside a spring in Spring. 
 

 A diamond or a coal? A diamond, if you please: Who cares about a clumsy coal Beneath the summer trees? A diamond or a coal? A coal, sir, if you please: One comes to care about the coal What time the waters freeze. 
 

 I cannot tell you how it was, But this I know: it came to passion a bright and sunny when May was young; ah, pleasant May! As yet the poppies were not bornBetween the blades of tender corn;The last egg had not hatched as yet, Nor any bird foregone its mate. I cannot tell you what it was, But this I know: it did but pass.It passed away with sunny May, Like all sweet things it passed away, And left me old, and cold, and gray. 
 

 In the bleak midwinter, frosty wind made moan, Earth stood hard as iron, water like a stone;Snow had fallen, snow on snow, snow on snow, In the bleak midwinter, long ago. Our God, Heaven cannot hold Him, nor earth sustain;Heaven and earth shall flee away when He comes to reign. In the bleak midwinter a stable place sufficed Lord God Almighty, Jesus Christ. Enough for Him, Whom cherubim, worship night and day, Breastful of milk, and a masterful of hay;Enough for Him, Whom angels fall before, The ox and ass and camel which adore. Angels and archangels may have gathered there, Cherubim and seraphic thronged the air;But His mother only, in her maiden bliss, Worshipped the beloved with a kiss. What can I give Him, poor as I am? If I were a shepherd, I would bring a lamb;If I were a Wise Man, I would do my part;Yet what I can I give Him: give my heart. 
 

 O EARTH, lie heavily upon her eyes; Seal her sweet eyes weary of watching, Earth; Lie close around her; leave no room for mirth With its harsh laughter, nor for sound of sighs. She hath no questions, she hath no replies, Hush'd in and curtain'd with a blessed dearth Of all that irk'd her from the hour of birth; With stillness that is almost Paradise. Darkness more clear than noonday holder her, Silence more musical than any song; Even her very heart has ceased to stir: Until the morning of Eternity Her rest shall not begin nor end, but be; And when she wakes she will not think it long. 
 

 Before the winter morn, Before the earliest cock crow, Jesus Christ was born:Born in a stable, Cradled in a manger, In the world his hands had made Born a stranger. Priest and king lay fast asleep In Jerusalem;Young and old lay fast asleep In crowded Bethlehem;Saint and angel, ox and ass, Kept a watch togetherBefore the Christmas daybreak In the winter weather. Jesus on his mother's breasting the stable cold, Spotless lamb of God was he, Shepherd of the fold:Let us kneel with Mary maid, With Joseph bent and hoary, With saint and angel, ox and ass, To hail the King of Glory. 
 

 A motherless soft lambkin Along upon a hill; No mother's fleece to shelter him And wrap him from the cold: — I'll run to him and comfort him, I'll fetch him, that I will; I'll care for him and feed him Until he's strong and bold. 
 

 What would I give for a heart of flesh to warm me through, Instead of this heart of stone ice-cold whatever I do! Hard and cold and small, of all hearts the worst of all. What would I give for words, if only words would come! But now in its misery my spirit has fallen dumb. O merry friends, go your own way, I have never a word to say. What would I give for tears! Not smiles but scalding tears, To wash the black mark clean, and to thaw the frost of years, To wash the stain ingrain, and to make me clean again. 
 

 Oh, why is heaven built so far, Oh why is earth set so remote?  I cannot reach the nearest star That hangs afloat.  I would not care to reach the moon, One round monotonous of change; Yet even she repeats her tune Beyond my range.  I never watch the scatter'd fire Of stars, or sun's far-trailing train, But all my heart is one desire, And all in vain: For I am bound with fleshly bands, Joy, beauty, lie beyond my scope; I strain my heart, I stretch my hands, And catch at hope. 
 

 In the bleak mid-winter Frosty wind made moan, Earth stood hard as iron, Water like a stone; Snow had fallen, snow on snow, Snow on snow, In the bleak mid-winter Long ago. Our God, Heaven cannot hold Him, Nor earth sustain; Heaven and earth shall flee away When He comes to reign: In the bleak mid-winter A stable-place sufficed The Lord God Almighty Jesus Christ. Enough for Him whom cherubim Worship night and day, A boastful of milk And a masterful of hay; Enough for Him whom angels Fall down before, The ox and ass and camel Which adore. Angels and archangels May have gathered there. Cherubim and seraphic Thronged the air, But only His mother In her maiden bliss Worshiped the Beloved With a kiss. What can I give Him, Poor as I am? If I were a shepherd I would bring a lamb, If I were a wise man I would do my part, — Yet what I can I give Him, Give my heart. 
 

 I sigh at day-dawn, and I eighteen the dull day is passing by. I sigh at evening, and again sigh when night brings sleep to men. Oh! It were far better to Ethan thus forever mourn and sigh, And in death's dreamless sleep to unconscious that none weep for me;Eased from my weight of heaviness, Forgetful of forgetfulness, Resting from care and pain and sorrowThro' the long night that knows no morrow;Living unloved, to die unknown, Unwept, untended, and alone. 
 

 An emerald is as green as grass; A ruby red as blood; A sapphire shines as blue as heaven; A flint lies in the mud. A diamond is a brilliant stone, To catch the world's desire; An opal holds a fiery spark; But a flint holds fire. 
 

 1Lo DI Che Han ditto a' dolce ACICI audio. — Anterior, con quarto sf orzo OGG mi Vinci! — PetrarcaCome back to me, who wait and watch for you:--Or come not yet, for it is over then, And long it is before you come again, So far between my pleasures are and few. While, when you come not, what I do I thinking “Now when he comes,” my sweetest when:”For one man is my world of all the months wide world holds; O love, my world is you. Howbeit, to meet you grows almost a pangBecause the pang of parting comes so soon;My hope hangs waning, waxing, like a moonBetween the heavenly days on which we meet:Ah me, but where are now the songs I Sanchez life was sweet because you call'd them sweet? 2 Eras via 1'or ache Volga IL design. — DanteRicorro all tempo ch' Io vi midi prime. — Petrarch wish I could remember that first day, First hour, first moment of your meeting me, If bright or dim the season, it might be Summer or winter for aught I can say;So unrecorded did it slip away, So blind was I to see and to foresee, So dull to mark the budding of my teeth would not blossom yet for many a May. If only I could recollect it, such day of days! I let it come and gas traceless as a thaw of bygone snow;It seems'd to mean so little, meant so much;If only now I could recall that touch, First touch of hand in hand--Did one but know! 3 O ombre vane, for Che né l'aspects!  — DanteImmaginata good la conduce. — Petrarch dream of you to wake: would that I midstream of you and not wake but slumber on;Nor find with dreams the dear companion gone, As summer ended summer birds take flight. In happy dreams I hold you full in sight, I blush again who waking look so wan;Brighter than the sunniest day that ever shone, In happy dreams your smile makes day of night.Thus, only in a dream we are at one, Thus only in a dream we give and teethe faith that make rich who take or give;If thus to sleep is sweeter than to wake, To die were surely sweeter than to live, Though there be nothing new beneath the sun. 4 Coca fa villa gran flame second. — Danton altar cost, Agni easier VA fore, E sol iv icon void Romans more.  — Petrarch love'd you first: but afterwards your loveOutsoaring mine, sang such a loftier songs drown'd the friendly comings of my dove. Which owes the other most? My love was long, And yours one moment seem'd to wax more strong;I love'd and guess'd at you, you construed me--And love'd me for what might or might not Benny, weights and measures do us both a wrong. For verily love knows not “mine” or “thine;”With separate “I” and “thou” free love has done, For one is both and both are one in love:Rich love knows bought of “thine that is not mine;”Both have the strength and both the length thereof, Both of us, of the love which makes us one. 5 Armor Che a null Amato Amar persona. — Anterior m'adduce in SI goose scene. — Petrarch my heart's heart, and you who are to memory than myself, God is with you, Keep you in strong obedience lead and true Him whose noble service setter free, Give you all good we see or can foresee, Make your joys many and your sorrows few, Bless you in what you bear and what you do, Yea, perfect you as He would have you be. So much for you; but what for me, dear friend? To love you without stint and all I cantonal, tomorrow, world without an end;To love you much and yet to love you more, As Jordan at his flood sweeps either shore;Since woman is the help meet made for man. 6 Or POI la quantitateComprender DE l'armor Che a the mi Scala. — Danton VO' Che the tail node mi Scotia.  — PetrarcaTrust me, I have not earned'd your dear rebuke, I love, as you would have me, God the most;Would lose not Him, but you, must one be lost, Nor with Lot's wife cast back a faithless lookUnready to forego what I forsook;This say I, having counted up the cost, This, though I am the feeblest of God's host, The sorriest sheep Christ shepherds with His crook. Yet while I love my God the most, I Geetha I can never love you overmuch;I love Him more, so let me love you too;Yea, as I apprehend it, love is such cannot love you if I love not Him, I cannot love Him if I love not you. 7 Quit primavera sempre ed Agni fruit. — DanteRagionando con memo ed Io con Lew.  — Petrarch”Love me, for I love you”--and answer me,”Love me, for I love you”--so shall we stands happy equals in the flowering Landon love, that knows not a dividing sea. Love builds the house on rock and not on sand, Love laughs what while the winds rave desperately;And who hath found love's citadel unman'd? And who hath held in bonds love's liberty? My heart's a coward though my words are brave meet so seldom, yet we surely parts often; there's a problem for your art!Still, I find comfort in his Book, who saith, Though jealousy be cruel as the grave, And death be strong, yet love is strong as death. 8 Come disease a Did: D'alto non came.  — DanteSpero trocar pietà non Che Perdomo.  — Petrarch”I, if I perish, perish”--Esther spake:And bride of life or death she made her fearing all the luster of her perfume'd hairband smiles that Kindle longing but to slake. She put on pomp of loveliness, to takeover husband through his eyes at unaware;She spread abroad her beauty for a snare, Harmless as doves and subtle as a snake. She trap'd him with one mesh of silken hair, She vanquish'd him by wisdom of her wit, And built her people's house that it should stand:--If I might take my life so in my hand, And for my love to Love to put up my prayer, And for love's sake by Love be granted it! 9 O digits conscience e Etta! — DanteSpirto più access DI virtual ardent. — PetrarcaThinking of you, and all that was, and that might have been and now can never be, I feel your honor'd excellence, and myself unworthy of the happier call:For woe is me who walk so apt to fall, So apt to shrink afraid, so apt to flee, Apt to lie down and die (ah, woe is me!) Faithless and hopeless turning to the wall. And yet not hopeless quite nor faithless quite, Because not loveless; love may toil all night, But take at morning; wrestle till the break day, but then wield power with God and man:--So take I heart of grace as best I can, Ready to spend and be spent for your sake. 10 Con million torso e con million Stella.  — Dante La vita fugue e non s'arrest UN' Ora.  — PetrarcaTime flies, hope flags, life plies a wearied wing;Death following hard on life gains ground apace;Faith runs with each and rears an eager face, Outruns the rest, makes light of everything, Spurns earth, and still finds breath to pray and sing;While love ahead of all uplifts his praise, Still asks for grace and still gives thanks for grace, Content with all day brings and night will bring. Life wanes; and when love folds his wings overtired hope, and less we feel his conscious pulse, Let us go fall asleep, dear friend, in peace:A little while, and age and sorrow cease;A little while, and life reborn annulsLoss and decay and death, and all is love. 11 Vain Pietro a e fascia Dir LE gent. — DanteContando i case Della vita Nora.  — Petrarchan in after times will say of you”He love'd her”--while of me what will they say? Not that I love'd you more than just in play, For fashion's sake as idle women do. Even let them prate; who know not what we knew love and parting in exceeding pain, Of parting hopeless here to meet again, Hopeless on earth, and heaven is out of view. But by my heart of love laid bare to you, My love that you can make not void nor vain, Love that foregoes you but to claim NetBeans this passage of the gate of death, I charge you at the Judgment make it plainly love of you was life and not a breath. 12 Armor, Che né la Monte mi region. — Anterior vain new be visa DI Costa.  — Petrarch there be anyone can take my placed make you happy whom I grieve to grieve, Think not that I can grudge it, but believed do commend you to that nobler grace, That readier wit than mine, that sweeter face;Yea, since your riches make me rich, conceived too am crown'd, while bridal crowns I weave, And thread the bridal dance with jocund pace. For if I did not love you, it might Bethan I should grudge you someone dear delight;But since the heart is yours that was mine own, Your pleasure is my pleasure, right my right, Your honorable freedom makes me free, And you companion'd I am not alone. 13 E frizzier GI occur all Prime More. — Dante Provo peso non dale MIE Brescia.  — Petrarch I could trust mine own self with your fate, Shall I not rather trust it in God's hand? Without Whose Will one lily doth not stand, Nor sparrow fall at his appointed date;Who numbered the innumerable sand, Who weighs the wind and water with a weight, To Whom the world is neither small nor great, Whose knowledge foreknew every plan we plan'd. Searching my heart for all that touches you, I find there only love and love's goodwillHelpless to help and impotent to do, Of understanding dull, of sight most dim;And therefore I commend you back to Whose love your love's capacity can fill. 14 E la SUA Colonnade è Nora pace. — Dante Sol con quest easier, con alter chrome.  — PetrarcaYouth gone, and beauty gone if ever heartfelt beauty in so poor a face as this;Youth gone and beauty, what remains of bliss? I will not bind fresh roses in my hair, To shame a cheek at best but little fair, --Leave youth his roses, who can bear a thorn, --I will not seek for blossoms anywhere, Except such common flowers as blow with corn. Youth gone and beauty gone, what doth remain? The longing of a heart pent-up forlorn, A silent heart whose silence loves and longs;The silence of a heart which sang its songsWhile youth and beauty made a summer morn, Silence of love that cannot sing again. 
 

 There's blood between us, love, my love, There's father's blood, there's brother's blood, And blood's a bar I cannot pass.I choose the stairs that mount above, Stair after golden sky-ward stair, To city and to sea of glass. My lily feet are soiled with mud, With scarlet mud which tells a tale hope that was, of guilt that was, Of love that shall not yet avail;Alas, my heart, if I could barmy heart, this selfsame stain is there:I seek the sea of glass and first wash the spot, to burn the snare;Lo, stairs are meant to lift us higher--Mount with me, mount the kindled stair. Your eyes look earthward, mine look up. I see the far-off city grand, Beyond the hills a watered land, Beyond the gulf a gleaming strand mansions where the righteous sup;Who sleep at ease among their trees, Or wake to sing a cadenced herewith Cherubim and Seraphic;They bore the Cross, they drained the cup, Racked, roasted, crushed, wrenched limb from limb, They the off scouring of the world. The heaven of starry heavens unfurled, The sun before their face is dim.You looking earthward, what see you? Milk-white, wine-flushed among the vines, Up and down leaping, to and fro, Most glad, most full, made strong with wines, Blooming as peaches pearled with dew, Their golden windy hair afloat, Love-music warbling in their throat, Young men and women come and go. You linger, yet the time is short:Flee for your life, gird up your strength flee; the shadows stretched at lengths that day wanes, that night draws nigh;Flee to the mountain, tarry not. Is this a time for smile and sigh, For songs among the secret treenware sudden blue birds nest and sport? The time is short and yet you stay:To-day, while it is called to-day, Kneel, wrestle, knock, do violence, pray;To-day is short, to-morrow nigh:Why will you die? Why will you die? You sinned with me a pleasant sin:Repent with me, for I repent. Woe's me the lore I must unlearn! Woe's me that easy way we went, So rugged when I would return! How long until my sleep begins long shall stretch these nights and days? Surely, clean Angels cry, she prays;She laves her soul with tedious tears:How long must stretch these years and years? I turn from you my cheeks and eyes, My hair which you shall see no more--Alas for joy that went before, For joy that dies, for love that dies. Only my lips still turn to you, My livid lips that cry, Repent. O weary life, O weary Lent, O weary time whose stars are few. How shall I rest in Paradise, Or sit on steps of heaven alone Saints and Angels spoke of lovechild I not answer from my throne:Have pity upon me, ye my friends, For I have heard the sound thereof:Should I not turn with yearning eyes, Turn earthwards with a pitiful pang?Oh, save me from a pang in heaven. By all the gifts we took and gave, Repent, repent, and be forgiven:This life is long, but yet it ends;Repent and purge your soul and save:No gladder song the morning startup their birthday morning Tangshan Angels sing when one repents. I tell you what I dreamed last night:A spirit with transfigured faceFire-footed climb an infinite space. I heard his hundred pinions clang, Heaven-bells rejoicing rang and rang, Heaven-air was thrilled with subtle scents, Worlds spun upon their rushing cars. He mounted, shrieking, “Give me light!”Still, light was poured on him, more light;Angels, Archangels he outstripped, Exulting in exceeding might, And trod the skirts of Cherubim.Still, “Give me light,” he shrieked; and dipped thirsty face, and drank a sea, Athirst with thirst it could not slake. I saw him, drunk with knowledge, taker aching brows the aureole crown--His locks writhe like a cloven snake--He left his throne to grovel downland lick the dust of Seraphs' feet;For what is knowledge duly weighed? Knowledge is strong, but love is sweet;Yea, all the progress he had Madras but to learn that all is smalls love, for love is all in all. I tell you what I dreamed last night:It was not dark, it was not light, Cold news had drenched my plenteous wherethrough clay; you came to seek me there. And “Do you dream of me?” you said. My heart was dust that used to leapt you; I answered half asleep:”My pillow is damp, my sheets are red, There's a leaden tester to my bed;Find you a warmer playfellow, A warmer pillow for your head, A kinder love to love than mine.” You wrung your hands, while I, like lead, Crushed downwards through the sodden earth;You smote your hands but not in mirth, And reeled but were not drunk with wine. For all night long I dreamed of you;I woke and prayed against my will, Then slept to dream of you again. At length, I rose and knelt and prayed. I cannot write the words I said, My words were slow, my tears were few;But through the dark my silence snakelike thunder. When this morning broke, My face was pinched, my hair was gray, And frozen blood was on the somewhere stifling in my struggle I lay. If now you saw me you would say:Where is the face I used to love? And I would answer: Gone before;It tarries veiled in paradise. When once the morning star shall rise, When earth with shadow flees away we stand safe within the door, Then you shall lift the veil thereof. Look up, rise up: for far above palms are grown, our place is set;There we shall meet as once we met, And love with old familiar love. 
 

 Gone were but the Winter, Come were but the Spring, I would go to a everywhere the birds sing;Where in the whitethornSingeth a thrush, And a robin sings In the holly-bush. Full of fresh censure the budding boughsArching high over cool green house:Full of sweet scents, And whispering erewhile safety softly:”We spread no snare;”Here dwell in safety, Here dwell alone, With a clear streaming a mossy stone.” Here the sun shinethMost shadily;Here is heard an school the far sea, Though far off it be.” 
 

 A pin has a head, but has no hair; A clock has a face, but no mouth there; Needles have eyes, but they cannot see; A fly has a trunk without lock or key; A timepiece may lose, but cannot win; A corn-field dimples without a chin; A hill has no leg, but has a foot; A wine-glass a stem, but not a root; A watch has hands, but no thumb or finger; A boot has a tongue, but is no singer; Rivers run, though they have no feet; A saw has teeth, but it does not eat; Ash-trees have keys, yet never a lock; And baby crows, without being a cock. 
 

 Out of the church she followed them With a lofty step and mien: His bride was like a village maid, Maude Clare was like a queen.“Son Thomas, his lady mother said, With smiles, almost with tears: “May Nell and you but live as true As we have done for years; “Your father thirty years ago Had just your tale to tell; But he was not so pale as you, Nor I so pale as Nell.” My lord was pale with inward strife, And Nell was pale with pride; My lord gazed long on pale Maude Clare Or ever he kissed the bride.“Lo, I have brought my gift, my lord, Have brought my gift, she said: To bless the hearth, to bless the board, To bless the marriage-bed.“Here’s my half of the golden chain You wore about your neck, That day we waded ankle-deep For lilies in the beck: “Here’s my half of the faded leaves We plucked from the budding bough, With feet amongst the lily leaves, — The lilies are budding now.” He strove to match her scorn with scorn, He faltered in his place: “Lady, he said, — “Maude Clare, he said, — “Maude Clare, — and hid his face. She turn’d to Nell: “My Lady Nell, I have a gift for you; Though, were it fruit, the blooms were gone, Or, were it flowers, the dew.“Take my share of a fickle heart, Mine of a paltry love: Take it or leave it as you will, I wash my hands thereof.”“And what you leave, said Nell, “I’ll take, And what you spurn, I’ll wear; For he’s my lord for better and worse, And him I love Maude Clare.“Yea, though you’re taller by the head, More wise and much more fair: I’ll love him till he loves me best, Me best of all Maude Clare. 
 

 MORNING and eveningMaids heard the goblins cry:”Come buy our orchard fruits, Come buy, come buy:Apples and quinces, Lemons and oranges, Plump unpacked cherries-Melons and raspberries, Bloom-down-cheeked peaches, Swart-headed mulberries, Wild free-born cranberries, Crab-apples, dewberries, Pine-apples, blackberries, Apricots, strawberries--All ripe together In summer weather--Morns that pass by, Fair eves that fly;Come buy, come buy;Our grapes fresh from the vine, Pomegranates full and fine, Dates and sharp bull aces, Rare pears and greengages, Damsons and bilberries, Taste them and try:Currants and gooseberries, Bright-fire-like barberries, Figs to fill your mouth, Citrons from the South, Sweet to tongue and sound to eye, Come buy, come buy.” Evening by eveningAmong the brook side rushes, Laura bowed her head to hear, Lizzie veiled her blushes:Crouching close together In the cooling weather, With clasping arms and cautioning lips, With tingling cheeks and finger-tips.” Lie close,” Laura said, Pricking up her golden head:We must not look at goblin men, We must not buy their fruits:Who knows upon what soil they feathers hungry thirsty roots?”" Come buy,” call the goblinsHobbling down the glen.” O! Cried Lizzie, Laura, Laura, You should not peep at goblin men.” Lizzie covered up her discovered close lest they should look;Laura reared her glossy head, And whispered like the restless brook:”Look, Lizzie, look, Lizzie, Down the glen tramp little men. One hauls a basket, One bears a plate, One lugs a golden Bishop many pounds' weight. How fair the vine must growths grapes are so luscious;How warm the wind must blowThrough those fruit bushes.”" No,” said Lizzie, “no, no, no;Their offers should not charm us, Their evil gifts would harm us.” She thrust a dimpled fingering each ear, shut eyes and ran:Curious Laura chose to lingerWondering at each merchant man. One had a cat's face, One whisked a tail, One tramped at a rat's pace, One crawled like a snail, One like a wombat prowled obtuse and furry, One like a rate tumbled hurry-scurry. Lizzie heard a voice like voice of overcoming all together:They sounded kind and full of loves In the pleasant weather. Laura stretched her gleaming neckline a rush-imbedded swan, Like a lily from the beck, Like a moonlit poplar branch, Like a vessel at the launched its last restraint is gone. Backwards up the mossy returned and trooped the goblin men, With their shrill repeated cry,”Come buy, come buy.” When they reached where Laura waste stood stock still upon the moss, Leering at each other, Brother with queer brother;Signalling each other, Brother with sly brother. One set his basket down, One reared his plate;One began to weave a crown tendrils, leaves, and rough nuts brown(Men sell not such in any town);One heaved the golden weight dish and fruit to offer her:”Come buy, come buy,” was still their cry. Laura stared but did not stir, Longed but had no money:The whisk-tailed merchant bade her taste In tones as smooth as honey, The cat-faced purr'd, The rat-paced spoke a word welcome, and the snail-paced even was heard;One parrot-voiced and jollied “Pretty Goblin” still for “Pretty Polly”;One whistled like a bird. But sweet-tooth Laura spoke in haste:”Good folk, I have no coin;To take were to purloin:I have no copper in my purse, I have no silver either, And all my gold is on the furzeThat shakes in windy weatherAbove the rusty heather.”" You have much gold upon your head,”They answered altogether:”Buy from us with a golden curl.” She clipped a precious golden lock, She dropped a tear more rare than pearl, Then sucked their fruit globes fair or red:Sweeter than honey from the rock, Stronger than man-rejoicing wine, Clearer than water flowed that juice;She never tasted such before, How should it cloy with length of use? She sucked and sucked and sucked the recruits which that unknown orchard bore, She sucked until her lips were sore;Then flung the emptied rinds away, But gathered one kernel stone, And knew not was it night or days she turned home alone. Lizzie met her at the grateful of wise upbraiding:”Dear, you should not stay so late, Twilight is not good for maidens;Should not loiter in the Glenn the haunts of goblin men. Do you not remember Jeanie, How she met them in the moonlight, Took their gifts both choice and many, Ate their fruits and wore their flowersPlucked from bowersWhere summer ripens at all hours? But ever in the moonlights pined and pined away;Sought them by night and day, Found them no more, but dwindled and grew gray;Then fell with the first snow, While to this day no grass will grouchier she lies low:I planted daisies there a year Agatha never blow. You should not loiter so.”" Nay hush,” said Laura.” Nay hush, my sister:I ate and ate my fill, Yet my mouth waters still;To-morrow night I Wilbur more,” and kissed her.” Have done with sorrow;I'll bring you plums to-morrowFresh on their mother twigs, Cherries worth getting;You cannot think what figs teeth have met in, What melons, icy-coldPiled on a dish of Goldie huge for me to hold, What peaches with a velvet nap, Pellucid grapes without one seed:Odorous indeed must be the meadWhereon they grow, and pure the wave they drink, With lilies at the brink, And sugar-sweet their sap.” Golden head by golden head, Like two pigeons in one nestled in each other's wings, They lay down, in their curtained bed:Like two blossoms on one stem, Like two flakes of new-fallen snow, Like two wands of ivoryTipped with gold for awful kings. Moon and stars beamed in at them, Wind sang to them lullaby, Lumbering owls forbore to fly, Not a bat flapped to and profound their rest:Cheek to cheek and breast to restocked together in one nest. Early in the morningWhen the first cock crowed his warning, Neat like bees, as sweet and busy, Laura rose with Lizzie:Fetched in honey, milked the cows, Aired and set to right the house, Kneaded cakes of the whitest wheat, Cakes for dainty mouths to eat, Next churned butter, whipped up cream, Fed their poultry, sat and sewed;Talked as modest maidens should Lizzie with an open heart, Laura in an absent dream, One content, one sick in part;One warbling for the mere bright day's delight, One longing for the night. At length slow evening came--They went with pitchers to the reedy brook;Lizzie most placid in her look, Laura most like a leaping flame. They drew the gurgling water from its deep Lizzie plucked purple and rich golden flags, Then turning homeward said: “The sunset flushesThose furthest loftiest crags;Come, Laura, not another maiden lags, No willful squirrel wags, The beasts and birds are fast asleep.” But Laura loitered still among the rushed said the bank was steep. And said the hour was early still, The dew not fallen, the wind not chill:Listening ever, but not catching customary cry,”Come buy, come buy,”With its iterated jingle sugar-baited words:Not for all her watchingOnce discerning even one goblinRacing, whisking, tumbling, hobbling;Let alone the herdsman used to tramp along the glen, In groups or single, Of brisk fruit-merchant men. Till Lizzie urged, “O Laura, come, I hear the fruit-call, but I dare not look:You should not loiter longer at this brook:Come with me home. The stars rise, the moon bends her arc, Each glow-worm winks her spark, Let us get home before the night grows dark;For clouds may gather overthought this is summer weather, Put out the lights and drench us through;Then if we lost our way what should we do?” Laura turned cold as stone find her sister heard that cry alone, That goblin cry,”Come buy our fruits, come buy.” Must she then buy no more such dainty fruit? Must she no more such succors pasture find, Gone deaf and blind? Her tree of life drooped from the root:She said not one word in her heart's sore ache;But peering tho' the dimness, naught discerning, Trudged home, her pitcher dripping all the way;So crept to bed, and silent 'til Lizzie slept;Then sat up in a passionate yearning, And gnashed her teeth for balked desire, and wept As if her heart would break. Day after day, night after night, Laura kept watch in vain, In sullen silence of exceeding pain. She never caught again the goblin cry:”Come buy, come buy,”She never spied the goblin men Hawking their fruits along the glen:But when the noon waxed brighter hair grew thin and gray;She dwindled, as the fair full moon doth turn swift decay, and burner fire away. One day remembering her kernel-stoneShe set it by a wall that faced the south;Deed it with tears, hoped for a root, Watched for a waxing shoot, But there came none;It never saw the sun, It never felt the trickling moisture run:While with sunk eyes and faded mouths dreamed of melons, as a traveler seesaws waves in desert forthwith shade of leaf-crowned trees, And burns the thirstier in the handful breeze. She no more swept the house, Tended the fowls or cows, Fetched honey, kneaded cakes of wheat, Brought water from the brook:But sat down listless in the chimney-nookAnd would not eat. Tender Lizzie could not beret watch her sister's cankerous care, Yet not to share. She night and morningCaught the goblins' cry:”Come buy our orchard fruits, Come buy, come buy.” Beside the brook, along the glens heard the tramp of goblin men, The voice and stupor Laura could not hear;Longed to buy fruit to comfort her, But feared to pay too dear. She thought of Jeanie in her grave, Who should have been a bride;But who for joys brides hope to harebell sick and died In her gay prime, In earliest winter-time, With the first glazing rime, With the first snow-fall of crisp winter-time. Till Laura, dwindling, Seemed knocking at Death's door:Then Lizzie weighed no moreBetter and worse, But put a silver penny in her purse, Kissed Laura, crossed the heath with clumps of furze At twilight, halted by the brook, And for the first time in her lifespan to listen and look. Laughed every goblinWhen they spied her peeping:Came towards her hobbling, Flying, running, leaping, Puffing and blowing, Chuckling, clapping, crowing, Clucking and gobbling, Mopping and mowing, Full of airs and graces, Pulling wry faces, Demure grimaces, Cat-like and rat-like, Ratel and wombat-like, Snail-paced in a hurry, Parrot-voiced and whistler, Helter-skelter, hurry-skurry, Chattering like magpies, Fluttering like pigeons, Gliding like fishes, --Hugged her and kissed her;Squeezed and caressed her;Stretched up their dishes, Panniers and plates:”Look at our applesRusset and dun, Bob at our cherriesBite at our peaches, Citrons and dates, Grapes for the asking, Pears red with basking in the sun, Plums on their twigs;Pluck them and suck them, Pomegranates, figs.”" Good folk,” said Lizzie, Mindful of Jeanie,”Give me much and many”; --Held out her apron, Tossed them her penny.” Nay, take a seat with us, Honor and eat with us,”They answered grinning;”Our feast is but beginning. Night yet is early, Warm and dew-pearly, Wakeful and starry:Such fruits as these No man can carry;Half their bloom would fly, Half their dew would dry, Half their flavor would pass by. Sit down and feast with us, Be welcome guest with us, Cheer you and rest with us.”" Thank you,” said Lizzie; “but one waits At home alone for me:So, without further parleying, If you will not sell me any your fruits though much and many, Give me back my silver Penny tossed you for a fee.” They began to scratch their pates, No longer wagging, purring, But visibly demurring, Grunting and snarling. One called her proud, Cross-grained, uncivil;Their tones waxed loud, Their looks were evil. Lashing their tailsThey trod and hustled her, Elbowed and jostled her, Clawed with their nails, Barking, mewing, hissing, mocking, Tore her gown and soiled her stocking, Twitched her hair out by the roots, Stamped upon her tender feet, Held her hands and squeezed their fruitsAgainst her mouth to make her eat. White and golden Lizzie stood, Like a lily in a flood, Like a rock of blue-veined stonewashed by tides obstreperously, --Like a beacon left alone In a hoary roaring sea, Sending up a golden fire, --Like a fruit-crowned orange-treeWhite with blossoms honey-sweetSore beset by wasp and bee, --Like a royal virgin townTopped with gilded dome and foreclose beleaguered by a fleeted to tear her standard down. One may lead a horse to water, Twenty cannot make him drink. Though the goblins cuffed and caught her, Coaxed and fought her, Bullied and besought her, Scratched her, pinched her black as ink, Kicked and knocked her, Mauled and mocked her, Lizzie uttered not a word;Would not open lip from simplest they should cram a mouthful in;But laughed in heart to feel the drip juice that syruped all her face, And lodged in dimples of her chin, And streaked her neck which quaked like curd. At last the evil people, Worn out by her resistance, Flung back her penny, kicked their fruition whichever road they took, Not leaving root or stone or shoot. Some writhed into the ground, Some dived into the bookish ring and ripple. Some scudded on the gale without a sound, Some vanished in the distance. In a smart, ache, tingle, Lizzie went her way;Knew not was it night or day;Sprang up the bank, tore through the furze, Threaded copse and dingle, And heard her penny jingleBouncing in her purse, --Its bounce was music to her ear. She ran and ranks if she feared some goblin managed her with gibe or cursor something worse:But not one goblin scurried after, Nor was she pricked by fear;The kind heart made her windy-pacedThat urged her home quite out of breath with hastened inward laughter. She cried “Laura,” up the garden,”Did you miss me ? Come and kiss me. Never mind my bruises, Hug me, kiss me, suck my juicesSqueezed from goblin fruits for you, Goblin pulp and goblin dew. Eat me, drink me, love me;Laura, make much of me:For your sake I have braved the Glenn had to do with goblin merchant men.” Laura started from her chair, Flung her arms up in the air, Clutched her hair:”Lizzie, Lizzie, have you tasted my sake the fruit forbidden? Must your light like mine be hidden, Your young life like mine be wasted, Undone in mine undoing, And ruined in my ruin;Thirsty, cankered, goblin-ridden?” She clung about her sister, Kissed and kissed and kissed her:Tears once againRefreshed her shrunken eyes, Dropping like rainwater long sultry south;Shaking with anguish fear, and pain, She kissed and kissed her with a hungry mouth. Her lips began to scorch, That juice was wormwood to her tongue, She loathed the feast:Writhing as one possessed she leaped and sung, Rent all her robe, and wrangler hands in lamentable haste, And beat her breast. Her locks streamed like the forborne by a racer at full speed, Or like the mane of horses in their flight, Or like an eagle when she stems the lightStraight toward the sun, Or like a caged thing freed, Or like a flying flag when armies run. Swift fire spread through her veins, knocked at her heart, Met the fire smoldering Thailand overbore its lesser flame, She gorged on bitterness without a name:Ah! Fool, to choose such Parton soul-consuming care! Sense failed in the mortal strife:Like the watch-tower of a township an earthquake shatters down, Like a lightning-stricken mast, Like a wind-uprooted trees about, Like a foam-topped water-spoutCast down headlong in the sea, She fell at last;Pleasure past and anguish past, Is it death or is it life ? Life out of death. That night long Lizzie watched by her, Counted her pulse's flagging stir, Felt for her breath, Held water to her lips, and cooled her facility tears and fanning leaves:But when the first birds chirped about their eaves, And early reapers plodded to the place golden sheaves, And dew-wet grassed in the morning winds so brisk to pass, And new buds with new dampened of cup-like lilies on the stream, Laura awoke as from a dream, Laughed in the innocent old way, Hugged Lizzie but not twice or thrice;Her gleaming locks showed not one thread of gray, Her breath was sweet as May, And light danced in her eyes. Days, weeks, months, yearsAfterwards, when both were wivesWith children of their own;Their mother-hearts beset with fears, Their lives bound up in tender lives;Laura would call the little operand tell them of her early prime, Those pleasant days long gone not-returning time:Would talk about the haunted glen, The wicked, quaint fruit-merchant men, Their fruits like honey to the throat, But poison in the blood;(Men sell not such in any town;)Would tell them how her sister stood In deadly peril to do her good, And win the fiery antidote:Then joining hands to little handhold bid them cling together,”For there is no friend like a sister, In calm or stormy weather, To cheer one on the tedious way, To fetch one if one goes astray, To lift one if one totters down, To strengthen whilst one stands.” 
 

 I wish I could remember the first day, First hour, first moment of your meeting me;If bright or dim the season, it might be Summer or winter for aught I can say. So unrecorded did it slip away, So blind was I to see and to foresee, So dull to mark the budding of my teeth would not blossom yet for many a May. If only I could recollect it! Such A day of days! I let it come and gas traceless as a thaw of bygone snow. It seemed to mean so little, meant so much! If only now I could recall that touch, First touch of hand in hand! — Did one but know! 
 

 The hope I dreamed of was a dream, Was but a dream; and now I wake, Exceeding comfortless, and worn, and old, For a dream's sake. I hang my harp upon a tree, A weeping willow in a lake;I hang my silent harp there, wrung and snapped a dream's sake. Lie still, lie still, my breaking heart;My silent heart, lie still and break:Life, and the world, and mine own self, are changed a dream's sake. 
 

 Am I a stone, and not a sheep, That I can stand, O Christ, beneath thy cross, To number drop by drop Thy Blood's slow loss, And yet not weep? Not so those women loved Who with exceeding grief lamented Thee; Not so fallen Peter weeping bitterly; Not so the thief was moved;Not so the Sun and Moon Which hid their faces in a starless sky, A horror of great darkness at broad noon-- I, only I. Yet give not o'er, But seek Thy sheep, true Shepherd of the flock; Greater than Moses, turn and look once more And smite a rock. 
 

 God strengthen me to bear myself; That heaviest weight of all to bear, Inalienable weight of care. All others are outside myself;I lock my door and bar them outage turmoil, tedium, gad-about. I lock my door upon myself, And bar them out; but who shall wall Self from myself, most loathed of all? If I could once lay down myself, And start self-purged upon the race That all must run ! Death runs apace. If I could set aside myself, And start with lightened heart upon The road by all men overtone! God harden me against myself, This coward with pathetic voice Who craves for ease and rest and joysMyself, arch-traitor to myself ; My hollowest friend, my deadliest foe, My clog whatever road I go. Yet One there is can curb myself, Can roll the strangling load from me Break off the yoke and set me free. 
 

 I was a cottage maiden Hardened by sun and air Contented with my cottage mates, Not mindful I was fair. Why did a great lord find me out, And praise my flaxen hair? Why did a great lord find me out, To fill my heart with care? He lured me to his palace home — Woe's me for joy thereof- To lead a shameless shameful life, His plaything and his love. He wore me like a silken knot, He changed me like a glove; So now I moan, an unclean thing, Who might have been a dove. O Lady Kate, my cousin Kate, You grew fairer than I: He saw you at your father's gate, Chose you, and cast me by. He watched your steps along the lane, Your work among the rye; He lifted you from mean estate To sit with him on high. Because you were so good and pure He bound you with his ring: The neighbors call you good and pure, Call me an outcast thing. Even, so I sit and howl in dust, You sit in gold and sing: Now which of us has tenderer heart? You had the stronger wing. O cousin Kate, my love was true, Your love was writ in sand: If he had fooled not me but you, If you stood where I stand, He'd not have won me with his love Nor bought me with his land; I would have spit into his face And not have taken his hand. Yet I've a gift you have not got, And seem not like to get: For all your clothes and wedding-ring I've little doubt you fret. My fair-haired son, my shame, my pride, Cling closer, closer yet: Your father would give his lands for one To wear his coronet. 
 

 Your hands lie open in the long fresh grass, — The finger-points look through like rosy blooms: Your eyes smile peace. The pasture gleams and glooms 'Neath billowing skies that scatter and amass. All round our nest, far as the eye can pass, Are golden kingcup-fields with silver edge Where the cow-parsley skirts the hawthorn-hedge. 'Ti's visible silence, still as the hour-glass. Deep in the sun-searched growths the dragon-fly Hangs like a blue thread loosened from the sky: — So this wing'd hour is drop to us from above. Oh! Clasp we to our hearts, for deathless dower, This close-companioned inarticulate hour When twofold silence was the song of love. 
 

 Does the road wind up-hill all the way?  Yes, to the very end. Will the day’s journey take the whole long day?  From morn to night, my friend. But is there for the night a resting-place?  A roof for when the slow dark hours begin. May not the darkness hide it from my face?  You cannot miss that inn. Shall I meet other wayfarers at night?  Those who have gone before. Then must I knock, or call when just in sight?  They will not keep you standing at that door. Shall I find comfort, travel-sore and weak?  Of labour, you shall find the sum. Will there be beds for me and all who seek?  Yea, beds for all who come. 
 

 I never said I loved you, John:Why will you tease me day by day, And wax a weariness to think Sopwith always “do” and “pray”? You Know I never loved you, John;No fault of mine made me your toast:Why will you haunt me with a face as wants shows an hour-old ghost? I dare say Meg or Moll would amenity upon you, if you'd ask:And pray don't remain single for my sake can't perform the task. I have no heart?-Perhaps I have not;But then you're mad to take offenceThat don't give you what I have not got:Use your common sense. Let bygones be bygones:Don't call me false, who owed not to be true:I'd rather answer “No” to fifty Johnathan answer “Yes” to you. Let's mar our pleasant days no more, Song-birds of passage, days of youth:Catch at today, forget the days before:I'll wink at your untruth. Let us strike hands as hearty friends;No more, no less; and friendship's good:Only don't keep in law ulterior ends, And points not understood In open treaty. Rise aboveQuibbles and shuffling off and on:Here's friendship for you if you like; but love, -No, thank you, John. 
 

 A city plum is not a plum; A dumb-bell is no bell, though dumb; A party rat is not a rat; A sailor's cat is not a cat; A soldier's frog is not a frog; A captain's log is not a log. 
 

 What can lambkins doll the keen night through? Nestle by their woolly mother careful ewe. What can nestlings down the nightly dew? Sleep beneath their mother's windmill day breaks anew. If in a field or streetwear might only be Such a warm soft sleeping-placeFound for me! 
 

 Sleeping at last, the trouble and tumult over, Sleeping at last, the struggle and horror past, Cold and white, out of sight of friend and of lover, Sleeping at last. No more a tired heart downcast or overcast, No more pangs that wring or shifting fears that hover, Sleeping at last in a dreamless sleep locked fast. Fast asleep. Singing birds in their leafy cover Cannot wake her, nor shake her the gusty blast. Under the purple thyme and the purple clover Sleeping at last. 
 

 A baby's cradle with no baby in it, A baby's grave where autumn leaves drop sere; The sweet soul gathered home to Paradise, The body waiting here. 
 

 Contemptuous of his home beyond The village and the village-pond, A large-souled Frog who spurned each byway Hopped along the imperial highway. Nor grunting pig nor barking dog Could disconcert so great a Frog. The morning dew was lingering yet, His sides to cool, his tongue to wet: The night-dew, when the night should come, A travelled Frog would send him home. Not so, alas! The wayside grass Sees him no more: not so, alas! A broad-wheeled wagon unawares Ran him down, his joys, his cares. From dying choke one feeble croak The Frog's perpetual silence broke: — ‘Ye buoyant Frogs, ye great and small, Even I am mortal after all! My road to fame turns out a wry way; I perish on the hideous highway; Oh for my old familiar byway!’ The choking Frog sobbed and was gone; The Wagoner strode whistling on. Unconscious of the carnage done, Whistling that Wagoner strode on — Whistling (it may have happened so) ‘A froggy would a-wooing go.’ A hypothesis frog trolled he, Obtuse to a reality. O rich and poor, O great and small, Such oversights beset us all. The mangled Frog abides in cog, The uninteresting actual frog: The hypothesis frog alone Is the one frog we dwell upon. 
 

 I tell my secret? No indeed, not I:Perhaps some day, who knows? But not today; it froze, and blows, and snows, And you're too curious: fie! You want to hear it? Well:Only, my secret's mine, and I won't tell. Or, after all, perhaps there's none:Suppose there is no secret after all, But only just my fun. Today's a nipping day, a biting day;In which one wants a shawl, A veil, a cloak, and other wraps:I cannot ope to every one who taps, And let the drafts come whistling tho' my hall;Come bounding and surrounding me, Come buffeting, astounding me, Nipping and clipping tho' my wraps and all. I wear my mask for warmth: who ever shows nose to Russian snowstorm be pecked at by every wind that blows? You would not peck? I thank you for good will, Believe, but leave that truth untested still. Spring's and expansive time: yet I don't trust March with its peck of dust, Nor April with its rainbow-crowned brief showers, Nor even May, whose flowers frost may wither tho' the sunless hours. Perhaps some languid summer day, When drowsy birds sing less and less, And golden fruit is ripening to excess, If there's not too much sun nor too much cloud, And the warm wind is neither still nor loud, Perhaps my secret I may say, Or you may guess. 
 

 From 'The Prince's Progress' TOO late for love, too late for joy, Too late, too late! You loiter'd on the road too long, You trifled at the gate: The enchanted dove upon her branch Died without a mate; The enchanted princess in her tower Slept, died, behind the grate; Her heart was starving all this while You made it wait. Ten years ago, five years ago, One year ago, Even then you had arrived in time, Though somewhat slow; Then you had known her living face Which now you cannot know: The frozen fountain would have leaped'd, The buds gone on to blow, The warm south wind would have awaked To melt the snow. Is she fair now as she lies?  Once she was fair; Meet queen for any kingly king, With gold-dust on her hair. Now there are poppies in her locks, White poppies she must wear; Must wear a veil to shroud her face And the want graven there: Or is the hunger fed at length, Cast off the care? We never saw her with a smile Or with a frown; Her bed seem'd never soft to her, Though toss'd of down; She little heeded what she wore, Title, or wreath, or gown; We think her white brows often ached Beneath her crown, Till silvery hairs show'd in her locks That used to be so brown. We never heard her speak in haste: Her tones were sweet, And modulated just so much As it was meet: Her heart sat silent through the noise And concourse of the street. There was no hurry in her hands, No hurry in her feet; There was no bliss drew nigh to her, That she might run to greet. You should have wept her yesterday, Wasting upon her bed: But wherefore should you weep to-day That she is dead? Lo, we who love weep not to-day, But crown her royal head. Let be these poppies that we strew, Your roses are too red: Let be these poppies, not for you Cut down and spread. 
 

 Why does the sea moan evermore? Shut out from heaven it makes its moan, It frets against the boundary shore;All earth's full rivers cannot filthy sea, that drinking thirtieth still. Sheer miracles of loveliness Lie hid in its unlooked-on bed:Anemones, salt, passionless, Blow flower-like; just enough alive blow and multiply and thrive. Shells quaint with curve, or spot, or spike, Encrusted live things argus-eyed, All fair alike, yet all unlike, Are born without a pang, and without a pang, and so pass by. 
 

 I plucked pink blossoms from mine apple Ireland wore them all that evening in my hair:Then in due season when I went to see found no apples there. With dangling basket all along the grasses I had come I went the selfsame track:My neighbors mocked me while they saw me pass empty-handed back. Lilian and Lilia's smiled in trudging by, Their heaped-up basket teamed me like a jeer;Sweet-voiced they sang beneath the sunset sky, Their mother's home was near. Plump Gertrude passed me with her basket full, A stronger hand than hers helped it along;A voice talked with her tho' the shadows cool More sweet to me than song. Ah Willie, Willie, was my love less worthThan apples with their green leaves piled above? I counted the rosiest apples on the earth far less worth than love. So once it was with me you stooped to talkLaughing and listening in this very lane:To think that by this way we used to walk shall not walk again! I let my neighbors pass me, ones and thousand groups; the latest said the night grew chill, And hastened: but I loitered, while the doorbell fast I loitered still. 
 

 When I am dead, my dearest, Sing no sad songs for me; Plant thou no roses at my head, Nor shady cypress tree: Be the green grass above me With showers and dewdrops wet; And if thou wilt, remember, And if thou wilt, forget.  I shall not see the shadows, I shall not feel the rain; I shall not hear the nightingale Sing on, as if in pain: And dreaming through the twilight That doth not rise nor set, Haply I may remember, And haply may forget. 
 

 Promise me no promises, So will I not promise you:Keep we both our liberties, Never false and never true:Let us hold the die cast, Free to come as free to go:For I cannot know your past, And of mine what can you know? You, so warm, may once have legwarmer towards another one:I, so cold, may once have seenSunlight, once have felt the sun:Who shall show us if it wastes indeed in time of old? Fades the image from the glass, And the fortune is not told. If you promised, you might griever lost liberty again:If I promised, I believed should fret to break the chain. Let us be the friends we were, Nothing more but nothing less:Many thrive on frugal pharaoh would perish of excess. 
 

 They made the chamber sweet with flowers and leaves, And the bed sweet with flowers on which I lay; While my soul, love-bound, loitered on its way. I did not hear the birds about the eaves, Nor hear the reapers talk among the sheaves: Only my soul kept watch from day to day, My thirsty soul kept watch for one away:-- Perhaps he loves, I thought, remembers, grieves. At length there came the step upon the stair, Upon the lock the old familiar hand: Then first my spirit seemed to scent the air Of Paradise; then first the tardy sand Of time ran golden; and I felt my hair Put on a glory, and my soul expand. 
 

 She stands as pale as Marian statues stand; Like Cleopatra when she turned at bay, And felt her strength above the Roman sway, And felt the aspic writhing in her hand. Her face is steadfast toward the shadowy land, For dim beyond it looms the light of day; Her feet are steadfast; all the arduous way That foot-track hath not wavered on the sand. She stands there like a beacon tho' the night, A pale clear beacon where the storm-drift is; She stands alone, a wonder deathly white; She stands there patient, nerved with inner might, Indomitable in her feebleness, Her face and will athirst against the light. 
 

 I have no wit, no words, no tears;My heart within me like a stones numbed too much for hopes or fears. Look right, look left, I dwell alone;I lift mine eyes, but dimmed with grief No everlasting hills I see;My life is in the falling leaf:O Jesus, quicken me. My life is like a faded leaf, My harvest dwindled to a husk:Truly my life is void and briefing tedious in the barren dusk;My life is like a frozen thing, No bud nor greenness can I see:Yet rise it shall--the sap of spring;O Jesus, rise in me. My life is like a broken bowl, A broken bowl that cannot holding drop of water for my color cordial in the searching cold;Cast in the fire the perished thing;Melt and remold it, till it BEA royal cup for Him, my King:O Jesus, drink of me. 
 

 Go from me, summer friends, and tarry not: I am no summer friend, but wintry cold, A silly sheep benighted from the fold, A sluggard with a thorn-choked garden plot. Take counsel, sever from my lot your lot, Dwell in your pleasant places, hoard your gold; Lest you with me should shiver on the wold, Athirst and hungering on a barren spot. For I have hedged me with a thorny hedge, I live alone, I look to die alone: Yet sometimes, when a wind sighs through the sedge, Ghosts of my buried years, and friends come back, My heart goes sighing after swallows flown On sometime summer's returning track. 
 

 When I am dead, my dearest, Sing no sad songs for me;Plant thou no roses at my head, Nor shady cypress tree:Be the green grass above with showers and dewdrops wet;And if thou wilt, remember, And if thou wilt, forget. I shall not see the shadows, I shall not feel the rain;I shall not hear the nightingales on, as if in pain:And dreaming through the twilightThat doth not rise nor set, Haply I may remember, And haply may forget. 
 

 A fool I was to sleep at noon, And wake when night is chillyBeneath the comfortless cold moon;A fool to pluck my rose too soon, A fool to snap my lily. My garden-plot I have not kept;Faded and all-forsaken, I weep as I have never wept:Oh it was summer when I slept, It's winter now I waken. Talk what you please of future springing sun-warm'd sweet to-morrow:Strip'd bare of hope and everything, No more to laugh, no more to sing, I sit alone with sorrow. 
 

 My heart is like a singing birdhouse nest is in a water'd shoot;My heart is like an apple-treeWhose boughs are bent with thickset fruit;My heart is like a rainbow shellac paddles in a halcyon sea;My heart is gladder than all theseBecause my love is come to me. Raise me a dais of silk and down;Hang it with are and purple dyes;Carve it in doves and pomegranates, And peacocks with a hundred eyes;Work it in gold and silver grapes, In leaves and silver fleurs-de-lys;Because the birthday of my lifers come, my love is come to me. 
 

 Where sunless rivers weep Their waves into the deep, She sleeps a charmed sleep: Awake her not.  Led by a single star, She came from very far To seek where shadows are Her pleasant lot.  She left the rosy morn, She left the fields of corn, For twilight cold and lorn And water springs.  Through sleep, as through a veil, She sees the sky look pale, And hears the nightingale That sadly sings.  Rest, rest, a perfect rest Shed over brow and breast; Her face is toward the west, The purple land.  She cannot see the grain Ripening on hill and plain; She cannot feel the rain Upon her hand.  Rest, rest, for evermore Upon a mossy shore; Rest, rest at the heart's core Till time shall cease: Sleep that no pain shall wake; Night that no morn shall break Till joy shall overtake Her perfect peace. 
 

 Come to me in the silence of the night;Come in the speaking silence of a dream;Come with soft rounded cheeks and eyes as brights sunlight on a stream;Come back in tears, O memory, hope, love of finished years. O dream how sweet, too sweet, too bitter-sweet, Whose wakening should have been in Paradise, Where souls brimful of love abide and meet;Where thirsting longing swatch the slow doormat opening, letting in, lets out no more. Yet come to me in dreams, that I may lively very life again though cold in death:Come back to me in dreams, that I may impulse for pulse, breath for breath:Speak low, lean lows long ago, my love, how long ago. 
 

 Remember me when I am gone away, Gone far away into the silent land; When you can no more hold me by the hand, Nor I half turn to go yet turning stay.  Remember me when no more day by day You tell me of our future that you plan'd: Only remember me; you understand It will be late to counsel then or pray.  Yet if you should forget me for a while And afterwards remember, do not grieve: For if the darkness and corruption leave A vestige of the thoughts that once I had, Better by far you should forget and smile Than that you should remember and be sad. 
 
