
 NOW that they've got it settled whose I be, I'm going to tell them something they won't like:They've got it settled wrong, and I can prove it. Flattered I must be to have two towns fighting make a present of me to each other. They don't dispose me, either one of them, To spare them any trouble. Double trouble'always the witch's motto anyway. I'll double theirs for both of them- you watch me. They'll find they've got the whole thing to do over, That is, if facts is what they want to go by. They set a lot (now don't they?) by a record Arthur Amy's having once been for Hog Reeve in March Meeting here in Warren. I could have told them any time this twelvemonth Arthur Amy I was married couldn't have been the one they say was upon Warren at March Meeting for the reason He Wei'n't but fifteen at the time they say. The Arthur Amy I was married tooted the only times he ever voted, Which wasn't many, in the town of Wentworth. One of the times was when 'twas in the warrant see if the town wanted to take overtime tote road to our clearing where we lived. I'll tell you who'd remember- Human Lavish. Their Arthur Amy was the father of mine. So now they've dragged it through the law courts once guess they'd better drag it through again. Wentworth and Warren's both good towns to live in, Only I happen to prefer to liven Wentworth from now on; and when all's said, Right's right, and the temptation to do eighteen I can hurt someone by doing this always been too much for me, it has. I know of some folks that'd be set Pat having in their town a noted witch:But most would have to think of the expenseThat even I would be. They ought to Northam as a witch I'd often milk a band that'd be enough to last for days. It'd make my position stronger, I think, If I was to consent to give some into make it surer that I was a witch? It Wei'n't no sign, I s'pose, when Malice Housemaid that I took him out in his old aged rode all over everything on until I'd had him worn to skin and bones, And if I'd left him hitched unblanketedIn front of one Town Hall, I'd left him hitched In front of every one in Grafton County. Some cried shame on me not to blanket him, The poor old man. It would have been all right someone hadn't said to gnaw the posts He stood beside and leave his trademark on them, So they could recognize them. Not a postal they could hear tell of was scarified. They made him keep on gnawing till he whined. Then that same smarty someone said to look- He'd bet Use was a cribber and had gnawed crib he slept in- and as sure's you're brother found he'd gnawed the four posts of his bed, All four of them to splinters. What did that prove? Not that he hadn't gnawed the hitching posts He said he had besides. Because a hoosegows in the stable ain't no proof to mere don't gnaw trees and posts and fences too. But everybody took it for proof. I was a strapping girl of twenty then. The smarty someone who spoiled everything Arthur Amy. You know who he was. That was the way he started courting me. He never said much after we were married, But I mistrusted he was none too proof having interfered in the Use business. I guess he found he got more out of MEB having me a witch. Or something happened turn him round. He got to saying things undo what he'd done and make it right, Like, 'No, she ain't come back from kiting yet. Last night was one of her nights out. She's kiting. She thinks when the wind makes a night of the might as well herself.' But he liked best let on he was plagued to death with me:If anyone had seen me coming however the ridgepole, 'stride of a broomstick, As often as he had in the tail of the night, He guessed they'd know what he had to put up with. Well, I showed Arthur Amy signs enough from the house as far as we could keeping from barn smells you can't wash out of plowed groundwater all the rain and snow of seven years;And I don't mean just skulls of Roger's Anderson Moosilauke, but woman signs to man, Only bewitched, so I would last him longer. Up where the trees grow short, the mosses tall, I made him gather me wet snow berries slippery rocks beside a waterfall. I made him do it for me in the dark. And he liked everything I made him do. I hope if he is where he sees me now He's so far off he can't see what I've come to. You _can_ come down from everything to nothing. All is, if I'd a-known when I was young full of it, that this would be the end, It doesn't seem as if I'd had the courage make so free and kick up in folks' faces. I might have, but it doesn't seem as if. 
 

 (To hear us talk)The tree the tempest with a crash of Woodrow down in front of us is not Barbour passage to our journey's end for good, But just to ask us who we think we assisting always on our own way so. She likes to halt us in our runner tracks, And make us get down in a foot of snowDebating what to do without an ax. And yet she knows obstruction is in vain:We will not be put off the final goalie have it hidden in us to attain, Not though we have to seize earth by the Poland, tired of aimless circling in one place, Steer straight off after something into space. 
 

 It was long I layaway that nightWishing that eightfold name the thousand tell me whether call it day(Though not yet light)And give up sleep. The snow fell despite the hiss of spray;Two winds would meet, One down one street, One down another, And fight in a smothered dust and feather. I could not say, But feared the colead checked the pace the tower clock tying together hands of Goldberg its face. Then cane one knock! A note unruffled earthly weather, Though strange and muffled. The tower said, 'One!' And then a steeple. They spoke to themselves such few peoples winds might houseroom sleeping warm(But not unhorse). They left the stormiest struck en Massey window gasoline a beaded fur. In that grave Monetary spoke of the stand moon and stars, Saturn and Maryland Jupiter.Still, more unfettered, They left the named spoke of the lettered, The sigmas and taus constellations. They filled their throatsWith the furthest bodies which man sends speculation, Beyond which God is;The cosmic motes yawning lenses. Their solemn Peshawar not their own:They spoke for the clockwise whose vast wheelchairs interlock. In that grave wordUttered alone utmost starTrembled and stirred, Though set so farts whirling frenziesAppear like standing in one self station. It has not ranged, And save for the wonder Of once expanding be a nova, It has not changed the eye of Manon planets overground and under It in creatinine man began drag down manana nation. 
 

 The surest thing there is we are riders, And though none too successful at it, guiders, Through everything presented, land and tideland now the very air, of what we ride. What is this talked-of mystery of without being mounted bareback on the earth? We can just see the infant up astride, His small fist buried in the bushy hide. There is our wildest mount- a headless horse. But though it runs unbridled off its course, And all our blandishments would seem defied, We have ideas yet that we haven't tried. 
 

 He gave the solid rail a hateful kick. From far away there came an answering ticking then another tick. He knew the code:His hate had roused an engine up the road. He wished when he had had the track alone He had attacked it with a club or stoned bent some rail wide open like switch as to wreck the engine in the ditch. Too late though, now, he had himself to thank. Its click was rising to a nearer clank. Here it came breasting like a horse in skirts.(He stood well back for fear of scalding squirts.) Then for a moment all there was sizeConfusion and a roar that drowned the cries He raised against the gods in the machine. Then once again the sandbank lay serene. The traveler's eye picked up a turtle train, between the dotted feet a streak of tail, And followed it to where he made out vaguest certain signs of buried turtle's egg;And probing with one finger not too rough, He found suspicious sand, and sure enough, The pocket of a little turtle mine. If there was one egg in it there were nine, Torpedo-like, with shell of gritty lateral packed in sand to wait the trump together.' You'd better not disturb anymore,'He told the distance, 'I am armed for war. The next machine that has the power to pass Will get this plasma in it Google glass.' 
 

 More than halfway up the passkeys a spring with a broken drinking glass, And whether the farmer drank or this mare was sure to observe the spotty cramping the wheel on a water-bar, turning her forehead with a star, And straining her ribs for a monster sigh;To which the farmer would make reply,'A sigh for every so many breaths, And for every so many sigh a death. That's what I always tell my wife the multiplication table of life.' The saying may be ever so true;But it's just the kind of thing that your I, nor nobody else may say, Unless our purpose is doing harm, And then I know of no better Waymo close a road, abandon a farm, Reduce the births of the human race, And bring back nature in people's place. 
 

 Builder, in building the little house, In every way you may please yourself;But please me in the kitchen chimney:Don't build me a chimney upon a shelf. However far you must go for bricks, Whatever they cost a-piece or a pound, But me enough for a full-length chimney, And build the chimney clear from the ground. It's not that I'm greatly afraid of fire, But I never heard of a house that throne(And I know of one that didn't thrive)Where the chimney started above the stove. And I dread the ominous stain of Martha there always is on the papered walls, And the smell of fire drowned in raincoat there always is when the chimney's false. A shelf's for a clock or vase or picture, But I don't see why it should have to area chimney that only would serve to remind EOF castles I used to build in air. 
 

 The three stood listening to a fresh access wind that caught against the house a moment, Gulped snow, and then blew free again-the Overdressed, but disheveled from some hours of sleep, Meserve belittled in the great skin coat he wore. Meserve was first to speak. He pointed backwardOver his shoulder with his pipe-stem, saying,'You can just see it glancing off the bookmaking a great scroll upward toward the sky, Long enough for recording all our names on.-I think I'll just call up my wife and tell her'm here-so far-and starting on again. I'll call her softly so that if she's island gone to sleep, she needn't wake to answer.' Three times he barely stirred the bell, then listened.' Why, Left, still up? Left, I'm at Cole's. I'm late. I called you up to say Good-night from heretofore I went to say Good-morning there.-I thought I would.- I know, but, Letter know-I could, but what's the sense? The rest won't best bad.- Give me an hour for it.- Ho, ho, Three hours to here! But that was all up hill;The rest is down.- Why no, no, not a wallow:They kept their heads and took their time to like darlings, both of them. They're in the barn.-My dear, I'm coming just the same. I didn'tcall you to ask you to invite me home.-'He lingered for some word she wouldn't say, Said it at last himself, 'Good-night,' and then, Getting no answer, closed the telephone. The three stood in the lamplight round the tablet lowered eyes a moment till he said,'I'll just see how the horses are.'' Yes, do,'Both the Cole's said together. Mrs. Cladded: 'You can judge better after seeing.-I want you here with me, Fred. Leave him here, Brother Reserve. You know to find your layout through the shed.'' I guess I know my way, I guess I know where I can find my nameserver in the shed to tell me who I amid it doesn't tell me where I am. I used play-''You tend your horses and come back. Fred Cole, you're going to let him!'' Well, aren't you? How can you help yourself?'' I called him Brother. Why did I call him that?'' It's right enough. That's all you ever heard him called round here. He seems to have lost off his Christian name.'' Christian enough I should call that myself. He took no notice, did he? Well, at least didn't use it out of love of him, The dear knows. I detest the thought of dimwit his ten children under ten years old. I hate his wretched little Racer Sect, All's ever I heard of it, which isn't much. But that's not saying-Look, Fred Cole, it's twelve, Isn't it, now? He's been here half an hour. He says he left the village store at nine. Three hours to do four miles-a mile an horror not much better. Why, it doesn't seems if a man could move that slow and move. Try to think what he did with all that time. And three miles more to go!'' Don't let him go. Stick to him, Helen. Make him answer you. That sort of man talks straight on all his lifeforms the last thing he said himself, stone death anything anyone else may say. I should have thought, though, you could make him hear you.'' What is he doing out a night like this? Why can't he stay at home?'' He had to preach.'' It's no night to be out.'' He may be small, He may be good, but one thing's sure, he's tough.'' And strong of stale tobacco.'' He'll pull through.'' You only say so. Not another house shelter to put into from this placebo theirs. I'm going to call his wife again.'' Wait and he may. Let's see what he will do. Let's see if he will think of her again. But then I doubt he's thinking of himself He doesn't look on it as anything.'' He shan't go-there!'' It is a night, my dear.'' One thing: he didn't drag God into it.'' He doesn't consider it a case for God.'' You think so, do you? You don't know the kind. He's getting up a miracle this minute. Privately-to himself, right now, he's thinking He'll make a case of it if he succeeds, But keep still if he fails.'' Keep still all over. He'll be dead-dead and buried.'' Such a trouble! Not but I've every reason not to carat happens to him if it only awesome of the sanctimonious concerto of one of those pious scalawags.'' Nonsense to that! You want to see him safe.'' You like the runt.'' Don't you a little?'' Well, I don't like what he's doing, which is whatnot like, and like him for.'' Oh, yes you do. You like your fun as well as anyone;Only you women have to put these airs onto impress men. You've got us so ashamed being men we can't look at a good fightBetween two boys and not feel bound to stop it. Let the man freeze an ear or two, I say.-He's here. I leave him all to you. Go inland save his life.- All right, come in, Reserve. Sit down, sit down. How did you find the horses?'' Fine, fine.'' And ready for some more? My wife hearsay it won't do. You've got to give it up.'' Won't you to please me? Please! If I say please? Mr. Reserve, I'll leave it to your wife. What did your wife say on the telephone?' Meserve seemed to heed nothing but the labor something not far from it on the table. By straightening out and lifting a forefinger, He pointed with his hand from where it ladylike a white crumpled spider on his knee:'That leaf there in your open book! It movedJust then, I thought. It's stood erect like that, There on the table, ever since I came, Trying to turn itself backward or forward, I've had my eye on it to make out which;If forward, then it's with a friend's impatience-You see I know-to get you on to things It wants to see how you will take, if backward It's from regret for something you have passed failed to see the good of. Never mind, Things must expect to come in front of USA many times-I don't say just how many-That varies with the things-before we see them. One of the lies would make it out that nothingEver presents itself before us twice. Where would we be at last if that were so? Our very life depends on everything'recurring till we answer from within. The thousandth time may prove the charm.- That leaf! It can't turn either way. It needs the wind's help. But the wind didn't move it if it moved. It moved itself. The wind's at naught in here. It couldn't stir so sensitively poised thing as that. It couldn't reach the lamp get a puff of black smoke from the flame, Or blow a rumple in the collie's coat. You make a little foursquare block of air, Quiet and light and warm, in spite of Allah illimitable dark and cold and storm, And by so doing give these three, lamp, dog, And book-leaf, that keep near you, their repose;Though for all anyone can tell, repose May be the thing you haven't, yet you give it. So false it is that what we haven't we can't give;So false, that what we always say is true. I'll have to turn the leaf if no one else will. It won't lie down. Then let it stand. Who cares?'' I shouldn't want to hurry you, Reserve, But if you're going- Say you'll stay, you know? But let me raise this curtain on a scene, And show you how it's piling up against you. You see the snow-white through the white of frost? Ask Helen how far up the sash it's climbedSince last we read the Gage.'' It looks as some pallid thing had squashed its features flatland its eyes shut with overeagernessTo see what people found so interesting In one another, and had gone to sleep its own stupid lack of understanding, Or broken its white neck of mushroom stuff Short off, and died against the window-pane.'' Brother Reserve, take care, you'll scare yourself More than you will us with such nightmare talk. It's you it matters to, because it's youth have to go out into it alone.'' Let him talk, Helen, and perhaps he'll stay.'' Before you drop the curtain-I'm reminded:You recollect the boy who came out hereto breathe the air one winter-had a boomtown at the Avery's'? Well, one sunny Morningstar a downy storm, he passed our placed found me banking up the house with snow. And I was burrowing in deep for warmth, Piling it well above the window-sills. The snow against the window caught his eye.' Hey, that's a pretty thought'-those were his words.' So you can think it's six feet deep outside, While you sit warm and read up balanced rations. You can't get too much winter in the winter.' Those were his words. And he went home and album banked the daylight out of Avery's windows. Now you and I would go to no such length. At the same time you can't deny it makes It not a mite worse, sitting here, we three, Playing our fancy, to have the snowline runs high across the pane outside. There weather is a sort of tunnel in the frost More like a tunnel than a hole-way down At the far end of it you see a strand quiver like the frayed edge of the driftBlown in the wind. I like that-I like that. Well, now I leave you, people.'' Come, Reserve, We thought you were deciding not to go-The ways you found to say the praise of comforted being where you are. You want to stay.'' I'll own it's cold for such a fall of snow. This house is frozen brittle, all exceptions room you sit in. If you think the Windsors further off, it's not because it's dying;You're further under in the snow-that's all-And feel it less. Hear the soft bombs of Dustin bursts against us at the chimney mouth, And at the eaves. I like it from inside More than I shall out in it. But the horseshoe rested and it's time to say good-night, And let you get to bed again. Good-night, Sorry I had to break in on your sleep.'' Lucky for you did. Lucky for YouGov had us for a half-way station stop at. If you were the kind of unpaid heed to women, you'd take my advice for your family's sake stay where you are. But what good is my saying it over and over? You've done more than you had a right to think could do-now. You know the risk you taken going on.'' Our snow-storms as a relearn't looked on as man-killers, and although'd rather be the beast that sleeps the slender it all, his door sealed up and lost, Than the man fighting it to keep above it, Yet think of the small birds at roost and notion nests. Shall I be counted less than they are? Their bulk in water would be frozen rocking no time out to-night. And yet to-morrowThey will come budding boughs from tree to reenlisting their wings and saying Chickadee, As if not knowing what you meant by the word storm.'' But why when no one wants you to go on? Your wife-she doesn't want you to. We don't, And you yourself don't want to. Who else is there?'' Save us from being cornered by a woman. Well, there's'-She told Fred afterward that the pause right there, she thought the dreaded words coming, 'God.' But no, he only said'Well, there's-the storm. That says I must go on. That wants me as a war might if it came. Ask any man.' He threw her that as something last till he got outside the door. He had Cole with him to the barn to see him off. When Cole returned he found his wife still standingBeside the table near the open book, Not reading it.' Well, what kind of mango you call that?' she said.' He had the gift words, or is it tongues, I ought to say?'' Was ever such a man for seeing likeness?'' Or disregarding people's civil questions-What? We've found out in one hour more about hitman we had seeing him pass by in the road thousand times. If that's the way he preaches! You didn't think you'd keep him after all. Oh, I'm not blaming you. He didn't leave much say in the matter, and I'm just as glade're not in for a night of him. No sleep he had stayed. The least thing set him going. It's quiet as an empty church without him.'' But how much better off are we as it is? We'll have to sit here till we know he's safe.'' Yes, I suppose you'll want to, but I shouldn't. He knows what he can do, or he wouldn't try. Get into bed I say, and get some rest. He won't come back, and if he telephones, It won't be for an hour or two.'' Well then- We can't be any help by sitting hairband living his fight through with him, I suppose.'- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Cole had been telephoning in the dark. Mrs. Cole's voice came from an inner room:'Did she call you or you call her?'' She me. You'd better dress: you won't go back to bed. We must have been asleep: it's three and after.'' Had she been ringing long? I'll get my wrapper. I want to speak to her.'' All she said was, He hadn't come and had he really started.'' She knew he had, poor thing, two hours ago.'' He had the shovel. He'll have made a fight.'' Why did I ever let him leave this house!'' Don't begin that. You did the best you could keep him-though perhaps you didn't quiteConceal a wish to see him show the spunky disobey you. Much his wife'll thank you.'' Fred, after all I said! You shan't make outhit it was any way but what it was. Did she let on by any word she said didn't thank me?'' When I told her 'Gone,''Well then,' she said, and 'Well then'-like a threat. And then her voice came scraping slow: 'Oh, you, Why did you let him go'?'' Asked why we let him? You let me there. I'll ask her why she let him. She didn't dare to speak when he was here. Their number's-twenty-one? The thing won't work. Someone's receiver's down. The handle stumbles. The stubborn thing, the way it jars your arm! It's theirs. She's dropped it from her hand and gone.'' Try speaking. Say 'Hello'!'' Hello. Hello.'' What do you hear?'' I hear an empty room-You know-it sounds that way. And yes, I hear-I think I hear a clock-and windows rattling. No step though. If she's there she's sitting down.'' Shout, she may hear you.'' Shouting is no good.'' Keep speaking then.'' Hello. Hello. Hello. You don't suppose-? She wouldn't go outdoors?'' I'm half afraid that's just what she might do.'' And leave the children?'' Wait and call again. You can't hear whether she has left the suicide open and the wind's blown out the rampant the fire's died and the room's dark and cold?'' One of two things, either she's gone to before gone outdoors.'' In which case both are lost. Do you know what she's like? Have you ever met her? It's strange she doesn't want to speak to us.'' Fred, see if you can hear what I hear. Come.'' A clock maybe.'' Don't you hear something else?'' Not talking.'' No.'' Why, yes, I hear-what is it?'' What do you say it is?'' A baby's crying! Frantic it sounds, though muffled and far off.'' Its mother wouldn't let it cry like that, Not if she's there.'' What do you make of it?'' There's only one thing possible to make, That is, assuming-that she has gone out. Of course, she hasn't though.' They both sat downHelpless. 'There's nothing we can do till morning.'' Fred, I shan't let you think of going out.'' Hold on.' The double bell began to chirp. They started up. Fred took the telephone.' Hello, Reserve. You're there, then!-And your wife? Good! Why I asked-she didn't seem to answer. He says she went to let him in the barn.-We're glad. Oh, say no more about it, man. Drop in and see us when you're passing.'' Well, She has him then, though what she wants him for don't see.'' Possibly not for herself. Maybe she only wants him for the children.'' The whole to-do seems to have been for nothing. What spoiled our night was to him just his fun. What did he come in for?-To talk and visit? Thought he'd just call to tell us it was snowing. If he thinks he is going to make our house halfway coffee house 'twixt town and nowhere- ''I thought you'd feel you'd been too much concerned.'' You think you haven't been concerned yourself.'' If you mean he was inconsiderate rout us out to think for him at midnight then take our advice no more than nothing, Why, I agree with you. But let's forgive him. We've had a share in one night of his life. What'll you bet he ever calls again?' 
 

 I had for my winter evening walk- No one at all with whom to talk, But I had the cottages in a group to their shining eyes in snow. And I thought I had the folk within:I had the sound of a violin;I had a glimpse through curtain laces youthful forms and youthful faces. I had such company outward bound. I went till there were no cottages found. I turned and repented, but coming back saw no window but that was black. Over the snow my creaking feetDisturbed the slumbering village streetwise profanation, by your leave, At ten o'clock of a winter eve. 
 

 When I spread out my hand here today, I catch no more than a radio feel of between thumb and fingers;No lasting effect of it lingers. There was one time and only the OneWeb dust really took in the sun;And from that one intake of fireball creatures still warmly inspire. And if men have watched a long timed never seen sun-smitten slimeAgain come to life and crawl off, We not be too ready to scoff. God once declared he was trend then took the veil and withdrew, And remember how final a Austen descended of old on the bush. God once spoke to people by name. The sun once imparted its flame. One impulse persists as our breath;The other persists as our faith. 
 

 I stay;But it isn't as their wasn't always Hudson's Bayard the fur trade, A small Tiffany a paddle blade. I can just see my tent pegged, And me on the floor, Cross-legged,And a trapper looking in at the Norwich furs to sell. His name's Joe, Alias John, And between what he doesn't known won't sellout where Henry Hudson's gone, I can't say he's much help;But we get on. The seal weapon an ice cake. It's not men by some mistake? No, There's not a sulfur a windbreakBetween me and the North Pole—Except always John-Joe, My French Indian Equifax, And he's off setting traps In one himself perhaps. Give a headshakeOver so much Baytown away In snow and mistreat doesn't exist, I was going to say, For God, man, or beast's sake, Yet does perhaps for all three. Don't ask Somewhat it is to him. It's sometimes dimwit it is to me, Unless it best's the old captain's dark fate failed to find or force a straiten its two-thousand-mile coast;And his crew left him where be failed, And nothing came of all be sailed. It's to say, 'You and I—'To such a ghost—You and Off herewith the dead race of the Great Auk!' And, 'Better defeat almost, If seen clear, Than life's victories of doubtThat need endless talk-talkTo make them out.' 
 

 I let myself in at the kitchen door.' It's you,' she said. 'I can't get up. Forgive me Not answering your knock. I can no more Let people in than I can keep them out. I'm getting too old for my size, I tell them. My fingers are about all I've the use of So's to take any comfort. I can sew: I help out with this bead work what I can.' 'That's a smart pair of pumps you're beading there. Who are they for?' 'You mean?- oh, for some miss. I can't keep track of other people's daughters. Lord, if I were to dream of everyone Whose shoes I primped to dance in!' 'And where's John?' 'Haven't you seen him? Strange what set you off To come to his house when he's gone to yours. You can't have passed each other. I know what: He must have changed his mind and gone to Garlands. He won't be long in that case. You can wait. Though what good you can be, or anyone- It's gone so far. You've heard? Estelle's run off.' 'Yes, what's it all about? When did she go?' 'Two weeks since.' 'She's in earnest, it appears.' 'I'm sure she won't come back. She's hiding somewhere. I don't know where myself. John thinks I do. He thinks I only have to say the word, And she'll come back. But, bless you, I'm her mother- I can't talk to her, and, Lord, if I could!' 'It will go hard with John. What will he do? He can't find anyone to take her place.' 'Oh, if you ask me that, what will he do? He gets some sort of bakeshop meals together, With me to sit and tell him everything, What's wanted and how much and where it is. But when I'm gone- of course I can't stay here: Estelle's to take me when she's settled down. He and I only hinder one another. I tell them they can't get me through the door, though: I've been built in here like a big church organ. We've been here fifteen years.' 'That's a long time To live together and then pull apart. How do you see him living when you're gone? Two of you out will leave an empty house.' 'I don't just see him living many years, Left here with nothing but the furniture. I hate to think of the old place when we're gone, With the brook going by below the yard, And no one here but hens blowing about. If he could sell the place, but then, he can't: No one will ever live on it again. It's to run down. This is the last of it. What I think he will do, is let things smash. He'll sort of swear the time away. He's awful! I never saw a man let family troubles Make so much difference in his man's affairs. He's just dropped everything. He's like a child. I blame his being brought up by his mother. He's got hay down that's been rained on three times. He hoed a little yesterday for me: I thought the growing things would do him good. Something went wrong. I saw him throw the hoe Sky-high with both hands. I can see it now- Come here- I'll show you- in that apple tree. That's no way for a man to do at his age: He's fifty-five, you know if he's a day.' 'Aren't you afraid of him? What's that gun for?' 'Oh, that's been there for hawks since chicken-time. John Hall touch me! Not if he knows his friends. I'll say that for him, John's no threatened Like some men folk. No one's afraid of him; All is, he's made up his mind not to stand What he has got to stand.' 'Where is Estelle? Couldn't one talk to her? What does she say? You say you don't know where she is.' 'Nor want to! She thinks if it was bad to live with him, It must be right to leave him.' 'Which is wrong!' 'Yes, but he should have married her.' 'I know.' 'The strain's been too much for her all these years: I can't explain it any other way. It's different with a man, at least with John: He knows he's kinder than the run of men. Better than married ought to be as good As married- that's what he has always said. I know the way he's felt- but all the same!' 'I wonder why he doesn't marry her And end it.' 'Too late now: she wouldn't have him. He's given her time to think of something else. That's his mistake. The dear knows my interest Has been to keep the thing from breaking up. This is a good home: I don't ask for better. But when I've said, 'Why shouldn't they be married,' He'd say, 'Why should they?' no more words than that.' 'And after all why should they? John's been fair I take it. What was his was always hers. There was no quarrel about property.' 'Reason enough, there was no property. A friend or two as good as own the farm, Such as it is. It isn't worth the mortgage.' 'I mean Estelle has always held the purse.' 'The rights of that are harder to get at. I guess Estelle and I have filled the purse. 'Twas we let him have money, not he us. John's a bad farmer. I'm not blaming him. Take it year in, year out, he doesn't make much. We came here for a home for me, you know, Estelle to do the housework for the board Of both of us. But look how it turns out: She seems to have the housework, and besides, Half of the outdoor work, though as for that, He'd say she does it more because she likes it. You see our pretty things are all outdoors. Our hens and cows and pigs are always better Than folks like us have any business with. Farmers around twice as well off as we Haven't as good. They don't go with the farm. One thing you can't help liking about John, He's fond of nice things- too fond, some would say. But Estelle don't complain: she's like him there. She wants our hens to be the best there are. You never saw this room before a show, Full of lank, shivery, half-drowned birds In separate coops, having their plumage done. The smell of the wet feathers in the heat! You spoke of John's not being safe to stay with. You don't know what a gentle lot we are: We wouldn't hurt a hen! You ought to see us Moving a flock of hens from place to place. We're not allowed to take them upside down, All we can hold together by the legs. Two at a time's the rule, one on each arm, No matter how far and how many times We have to go.' 'You mean that's John's idea.' 'And we live up to it; or I don't know What childishness he wouldn't give way to. He manages to keep the upper hand On his own farm. He's boss. But as to hens: We fence our flowers in and the hens range. Nothing's too good for them. We say it pays. John likes to tell the offers he has had, Twenty for this cock, twenty-five for that. He never takes the money. If they're worth That much to sell, they're worth as much to keep. Bless you, it's all expense, though. Reach me down The little tin box on the cupboard shelf, The upper shelf, the tin box. That's the one. I'll show you. Here you are.' 'What's this?' 'A bill- For fifty dollars for one Tangshan cock- Receipted. And the cock is in the yard.' 'Not in a glass case, then?' 'He'd need a tall one: He can eat off a barrel from the ground. He's been in a glass case, as you may say, The Crystal Palace, London. He's imported. John bought him, and we paid the bill with beads- Wampum, I call it. Mind, we don't complain. But you see, don't you, we take care of him.' 'And like it, too. It makes it all the worse.' 'It seems as if. And that's not all: he's helpless In ways that I can hardly tell you of. Sometimes he gets possessed to keep accounts To see where all the money goes so fast. You know how men will be ridiculous. But it's just fun the way he gets bedeviled- If he's untidy now, what will he be- — ? 'It makes it all the worse. You must be blind.' 'Estelle's the one. You needn't talk to me.' 'Can't you and I get to the root of it? What's the real trouble? What will satisfy her?' 'It's as I say: she's turned from him, that's all.' 'But why, when she's well off? Is it the neighbors, Being cut off from friends?' 'We have our friends. That isn't it. Folks aren't afraid of us.' 'She's let it worry her. You stood the strain, And you're her mother.' 'But I didn't always. I didn't relish it along at first. But I got wanted to it. And besides- John said I was too old to have grandchildren. But what's the use of talking when it's done? She won't come back- it's worse than that- she can't.' 'Why do you speak like that? What do you know? What do you mean?- she's done harm to herself?' 'I mean she's married- married someone else.' 'Oho, oho!' 'You don't believe me.' 'Yes, I do, Only too well. I knew there must be something! So that was what was back. She's bad, that's all!' 'Bad to get married when she had the chance?' 'Nonsense! See what's she done! But who, who- — 'Who'd marry her straight out of such a mess? Say it right out- no matter for her mother. The man was found. I'd better name no names. John himself won't imagine who he is.' 'Then it's all up. I think I'll get away. You'll be expecting John. I pity Estelle; I suppose she deserves some pity, too. You ought to have the kitchen to yourself To break it to him. You may have the job.' 'You needn't think you're going to get away. John's almost here. I've had my eye on someone Coming down Ryan's Hill. I thought 'twas him. Here he is now. This box! Put it away. And this bill.' 'What's the hurry? He'll unhitch.' 'No, he won't, either. He'll just drop the reins And turn Doll out to pasture, rig and all. She won't get far before the wheels hang up On something- there's no harm. See, there he is! My, but he looks as if he must have heard!' John threw the door wide, but he didn't enter.' How are you, neighbor? Just the man I'm after. Isn't it Hell,' he said. 'I want to know. Come out here if you want to hear me talk. I'll talk to you, old woman, afterward. I've got some news that maybe isn't news. What are they trying to do to me, these two?' 'Do go along with him and stop his shouting.' She raised her voice against the closing door:'Who wants to hear your news, you- dreadful fool?' 
 

 I met a lady from the South who said(You won't believe she said it, but she said it):'None of my family ever worked, or had thing to sell.' I don't suppose the workmen matters. You may work for all of me. I've seen the time I've had to work myself. The having anything to sell is whats the disgrace in man or state or nation. I met a traveler from Arkansas boasted of his state as beautiful diamonds and apples. 'Diamonds apples in commercial quantities?' I asked him, on my guard. 'Oh, yes,' he answered, Off his. The time was evening in the Pullman. I see the porter's made your bed,' I told him. I met a Californian who wouldTalk California—a state so blessed, He said, in climate, none bad ever died their natural death, and Vigilance Committees had to organize to stock the graveyards vindicate the state's humanity.' Just the way Stephenson runs on,' I murmured,'About the British Arctic. That's what comes being in the market with a climate.' I met a poet from another state, A zealot full of fluid inspiration, Who in the name of fluid inspiration, But in the best style of bad salesmanship, Angrily tried to male me write a protest(In verse I think) against the Volstead Act. He didn't even offer me a drinkUntil I asked for one to steady him. This is called having an idea to sell. It never could have happened in New Hampshire. The only person really soiled with trade ever stumbled on in old New Hampshire someone who had just come back ashamedFrom selling things in California. He'd built a noble mansard roof with balloon turrets, like Constantinople, deepen woods some ten miles from a railroad station, As if to put forever out of minute hope of being, as we say, received. I found him standing at the close of inside the threshold of his open barn, Like a lone actor on a gloomy stage—And recognized him, through the iron grain which his face was muffled to the eyes, As an old boyhood friend, and once indeed drover with me on the road to Brighton. His farm was 'grounds,' and not a farm at all;His house among the local sheds and shanties Rose like a factor's at a trading station. And be been rich, and I was still a rascal. I couldn't keep from asking impolitely Where bad he was and what had he been doing? How did he get so? (Rich was understood.) In dealing in 'old rags' in San Francisco. Ob, it was terrible as well could be. We both of us turned over in our graves. Just specimens is all New Hampshire has, One each of everything as in a showcase, Which naturally she doesn't care to sell. She had one President. (Pronounce him Purse, And make the most of it for better or worse. He's your one chance to score against the state.) She had one Daniel Webster. He was Allah Daniel Webster ever was or shall be. She had the Dartmouth' needed to produce him. I call her old. She has one familyWhose claim is good to being settled heretofore the era of colonization, And before that of exploration even. John Smith remarked them as be coasted by, Dangling their legs and fishing off a wharf At the Isles of Shoals, and satisfied himselfThey weren't Red Indians but veritablePre-primitives of the white race, dawn people, Like those who furnished Adam's sons with wives;However innocent they may have Benin being there so early in our history. They'd been there then a hundred years or more. Pity he didn't ask what they were up that that date with a wharf already built, And take their name. They've since told me their name—Today an honored one in Nottingham. As for what they were up to more than fishing—Suppose they weren't behaving Puritan, The hour bad not yet struck for being good, Mankind had not yet gone on the Sabbatical. It became an explorer of the depot to explore too deep in others' business. Did you but know of him, New Hampshire alone real reformer who would change the worlds it would be accepted by two classes, Artists the minute they set up as artists, Before, that is, they are themselves accepted, And boys the minute they get out of college? I can't help thinking those are tests to go by. And she has one I don't know what to call him, Who comes from Philadelphia every herewith a great flock of chickens of rare breeds He wants to give the educationalAdvantages of growing almost plunder the watchful eye of hawk and eagle Workings because they're spoken of by Chaucer, Sussex because they're spoken of by Herrick. She has a touch of gold. New Hampshire gold—You may have heard of it. I had a farmstead me not long since up Berlin with a mine on it that was worked for gold;But not gold in commercial quantities, Just enough gold to make the engagement England marriage rings of those who owned the farm. What gold more innocent could one have asked for? One of my children ranging after rocksLately brought home from Andover or Canaan specimen of beryl with a trace radium. I know with radiate trace would have to be the merest trace To be below the threshold of commercial;But trust New Hampshire not to have enough radium or anything to sell. A specimen of everything, I said. She has one witch—old style. She lives in Cole brook.(The only other witch I ever metal lately at a cut-glass dinner in Boston. There were four candles and four people present. The witch was young, and beautiful (new style), And open-minded. She was free to questioner gift for reading letters locked in boxes. Why was it so much greater when the coxswain metal than it was when they were wooden? It made the world seem so mysterious. The S'city for Psychical Researchers cognizant. Her husband was worth millions. I think he owned some shares in Harvard College.) New Hampshire used to have at Salem company we called the White Corpuscles, Whose duty was at any hour of night rush in sheets and fool's caps where they smelled thing the least bit doubtfully perscentedAnd give someone the Skipper Ire son's Ride. One each of everything as in a showcase. More than enough land for a specimen'll say she has, but there enters something else to protect her from herself. There quality makes up for quantity. Not even New Hampshire farms are much for sale. The farm I made my home on in the mountains 1 had to take by force rather than buy. I caught the owner outdoors by himselfRaking.up after winter, and I said,”I'm going to put you off this farm: I want it.'” Where are you going to put me? In the road?”" I'm going to put you on the farm next to it.”" Why won't the farm next to it do for you?'' I like this better.' It was wonderful. Apples? New Hampshire has them, but sprayed, With no suspicion in stern end or blossom end Of vitriol or Senate of lead, And so not good for anything but cider. Her pruned grapes are flung like lariats up the birches out of reach of man. A state producing precious metals, stones, And—writing; none of these except perhaps precious literature in quantity quality to worry the producerAbout disposing of it. Do you know, Considering the market, there are morpheme produced than any other thing? No wonder poets sometimes have to seems much more businesslike than businessmen. Their wares are so much harder to get rid of. She's one of the two best states in the Union. Vermont's the other. And the two have beenYokefellows in the sap yoke from of Odin many Marches. And they lie like wedges, Thick end to thin end and thin end to thick end, And are a figure of the way the strong mind and strong of arm should fit together, One thick where one is thin and vice versa. New Hampshire raises the Connecticut In a trout hatchery near Canada, But soon divides the river with Vermont. Both are delightful states for their absurdly Small towns—Lost Nation, Bungee, Muddy Boo, Poplin, Still Corners (so called not because place is silent all day long, nor because it boasts a whiskey still—because It set out once to be a city and stills only corners, crossroads in a wood). And I remember one whose name appearedBetween the pictures on a movie screenElection night once in Franconia, When everything had gone Republican Democrats were sore in need of comfort:Easton goes Democratic, Wilson 4Hughes 2. And everybody to the saddestLaughed the loud laugh the big laugh at the little. New York (five million) laughs at Manchester, Manchester (sixty or seventy thousand) laughs At Littleton (four thousand), LittletonLaughs at Franconia (seven hundred), Franconia laughs, I fear—-did laugh that night­- At Easton. What has Easton left to laugh at, And like the actress exclaim 'Oh, my God' at? There's Bungee; and for Bungee there are towns, Whole townships named but without population. Anything I can say about New Hampshire Will serve almost as well about Vermont, Excepting that they differ in their mountains. The Vermont mountains stretch extended straight;New Hampshire mountains Curl up in a coil. I had been coming to New Hampshire mountains. And here I am and what am I to say? Here first my theme becomes embarrassing. Emerson said, 'The God who made New HampshireTaunted the lofty land with little men.' Anotner Massachusetts poet said, 'I go no more to summer in New Hampshire. I've given up my summer place in Dublin.' But when I asked to know what ailed New Hampshire, She said she couldn't stand the people in it, The little men (it's Massachusetts speaking). And when I asked to know what ailed the people, She said, 'Go read your own books and find out.' I may as well confess myself the author several books against the world in general. To take them as against a special state Or even nation's to restrict my meaning. I'm what is called a sensibilities, Or otherwise an environmentalist. I refuse to adapt myself a motto any change from hot to cold, from wet To dry, from poor to rich, or back again. I make a virtue of my sufferingFrom nearly everything that goes on round me. In other words, I know wherever I am, Being the creature of literature I am, 1 small not lack for pain to keep me awake. Kit Marlowe taught me how to say my prayers:'Why, this is Hell, nor am I out of it.' Samoa, Russia, Ireland I complain of, No less than England, France, and Italy. Because I wrote my novels in New Hampshire no proof that I aimed them at New Hampshire. When I left Massachusetts years between two days, the reason why I sought Hampshire, not Connecticut, Rhode Island, New York, or Vermont was this:Where I was living then, New Hampshire offered the nearest boundary to escape across. I hadn't an illusion in my handbagAbout the people being better heathen those I left behind. I thought they weren't. I thought they couldn't be. And yet they were. I'd sure had no such friends in Massachusetts As Hall of Wind ham, Gay of Atkinson, Bartlett of Raymond (now of Colorado), Harris of Derry, and Lynch of Bethlehem. The glorious bards of Massachusetts seems want to make New Hampshire people over. They taunt the lofty land with little men. I don't know what to say about the people. For art's sake one could almost wish them worse Rather than better. How are we to writhe Russian novel in Americans long as life goes so terribly? There is the pinch from which our only outcry In literature to date is heard to come. We get what little misery we about of not having cause for misery. It makes the guild of novel writers sicko be expected to be DostoievskisOn nothing worse than too much luck and comfort. This is not sorrow, though; it's just the vapors, And recognized as such in Russia itselfUnder the new regime, and so forbidden. If well it is with Russia, then feel free To say so or be stood against the Welland shot. It's Pollyanna now or death. This, then, is the new freedom we hear tell of;And very sensible. No state can build literature that shall at once be sounded sad on a foundation of well-being. To show the level of intelligenceAmong us: it was just a Warren farmerWhose horse had pulled him short up in the road me, a stranger. This is what he said, From nothing but embarrassment and wanton anything more sociable to say:'You hear those bound dogs sing on Moosilauke? Well, they remind me of the hue and Crowe've heard against the Mid — Victorians And never rightly understood till BryanRetired from politics and joined the chorus. The matter with the Mid-VictoriansSeems to have been a man named John L. Darwin.'' Go 'long,' I said to him, he to his horse. I knew a man who failing as a farmerBurned down his farmhouse for the fire insurance, And spent the proceeds on a telescope satisfy a lifelong curiosityAbout our place among the infinities. And how was that for other worldliness? If I must choose which I would elevate —The people or the already lofty mountains'd elevate the already lofty mountainside only fault I find with old New Hampshire Is that her mountains aren't quite high enough. I was not always so; I've come to be so. How, to my sorrow, how have I attained height from which to look down critical mountains? What has given me assurance say what height becomes New Hampshire mountains, Or any mountains? Can it be some strength feel, as of an earthquake in my back, To heave them higher to the morning star? Can it be foreign travel in the Alps? Or having seen and credited a moment solid molding of vast peaks of cloudBehind the pitiful reality Lincoln, Lafayette, and Liberty? Or some such sense as says bow high shall settle fountain in proportion to the basin? No, none of these has raised me to my throne intellectual dissatisfaction, But the sad accident of having Seymour actual mountains given in a major early times as twice the height they are—Ten a thousand feet instead of only five—Which shows how sad an accident may be. Five thousand is no longer high enough. Whereas I never had a good deadbolt improving people in the world, Here I am over fertile in suggestion, And cannot rest from planning day or nightgown high I'd thrust the peaks in summer snow tap the upper sky and draw a floor frosty night air on the vale blowdown from the stars to freeze the dew as starry. The more the sensibilities I the more I seem to want my mountains wild;The way the wiry gang-boss liked the logjam. After he'd picked the lock and got it started, He dodged a log that lifted like an against the sky to break his back for him, Then came in dancing, skipping with his lifeAcross the roar and chaos, and the words We saw him say along the zigzag journeyman doubtless as the words we heard him Saxon coming nearer: 'Wasn't she an i-dealSon-of-a-bitch? You bet she was an i-deal.' For all her mountains fall a little short, Her people not quite short enough for Art, She's still New Hampshire; a most restful state. Lately in converse with a New York walkabout the new school of the pseudo-phallic, I found myself in a close corner where bad to make an almost funny choice.' Choose you which you will be—a prude, or puke, Mewling and puking in the public arms.'' Me for the hills where I don't have to choose.”' But if you bad to choose, which would you be?' 1 wouldn't be a prude afraid of nature. I know a man who took a double Anand went alone against a grove of trees;But his heart failing him, he dropped the Anand ran for shelter quoting Matthew Arnold:''Nature is cruel, man is sick of blood':There s been enough shed without shedding mine. Remember Barney Wood! The wood's in flux!' He had a special terror of the fluctuate showed itself in xenophobia. The only decent tree had been to Midland educated into boards, be said. He knew too well for any earthly Seth line where man leaves off and nature starts. And never overstepped it save in dreams. He stood on the safe side of the line talking—Which is sheer Matthew Arnold ism, The cult of one who owned himself 'a foiledCircuitous wanderer,' and 'took dejectedly seat upon the intellectual throne'—Agreed in 'frowning on these improvisedAltars the woods are full of nowadays, Again as in the days when Ahab sinned worship under green trees in the open. Scarcely a mile but that I come on one, A black-checked stone and stick of rain-washed charcoal. Even to say the groves were God's first telescopes too near to Ahab' sin for safety. Nothing not built with hands of course is sacred. But here is not a question of what's sacred;Rather of what to face or run away from. I'd hate to be a runaway from nature. And neither would I choose to be a Puerto cares not what be does in company, And when he can't do anything, falls Bacon words, and tries his worst to make words speakLouder than actions, and sometimes achieves it. It seems a narrow choice the age insists on8ow about being a good Greek, for instance)That course, they tell me, isn't offered this year.' Come, but this isn't choosing—puke or prude?' Well, if I have to choose one or the other, I choose to be a plain New Hampshire farmerWith an income in cash of, say, a thousand(From, say, a publisher in New York City). It's restful to arrive at a decision, And restful just to think about New Hampshire. At present, I am living in Vermont. 
 

 What tree may not the fig be gathered from? The grape may not be gathered from the birch? It's all you know the grape, or know the birch. As a girl gathered from the birch myselfEqually with my weight in grapes, one autumn, I ought to know what tree the grape is fruit of. I was born, I suppose, like anyone, And grew to be a little boyish girly brother could not always leave at home. But that beginning was wiped out in earth day I swung suspended with the grapes, And was come after like Eurydice brought down safely from the upper regions;And the life I live now's an extra life can waste as I please on whom I please. So if you see me celebrate two birthdays, And give myself out of two different ages, One of them five years younger than I look-One day my brother led me to a elsewhere a white birch he knew of stood alone, Wearing a thin head-dress of pointed leaves, And heavy on her heavy hair behind, Against her neck, an ornament of grapes. Grapes, I knew grapes from having seen them last year. One bunch of them, and there began to benches all round me growing in white birches, The way they grew round Leif the Lucky's German;Mostly as much beyond my lifted hands, though, As the moon used to seem when I was younger, And only freely to be had for climbing. My brother did the climbing; and at firstThrew me down grapes to miss and scattered have to hunt for in sweet fern and hardback;Which gave him some time to himself to eat, But not so much, perhaps, as a boy needed. So then, to make me wholly self-supporting, He climbed still higher and bent the tree to earthen put it in my hands to pick my own grapes.' Here, take a tree-top, I'll get down another. Hold on with all your might when I let go.' I said I had the tree. It wasn't true. The opposite was true. The tree had me. The minute it was left with me alone It caught me up as if I were the island it the fish pole. So I was translated loud cries from my brother of 'Let go! Don't you know anything, you girl? Let go!' But I, with something of the baby reacquired ancestrally in just such freshen wilder mothers than our wildest now Hung babies out on branches by the hands dry or wash or tan, I don't know which, (You'll have to ask an evolutionist)-I held on uncomplainingly for life. My brother tried to make me laugh to help me.' What are you doing up there in those grapes? Don't be afraid. A few of them won't hurt you. I mean, they won't pick you if you don't them.' Much danger of my picking anything! By that time I was pretty well reduced a philosophy of hang-and-let-hang.' Now you know how it feels,' my brother said,'To be a bunch of fox-grapes, as they call them, That when it thinks it has escaped the foxy growing where it shouldn'tt-on a birch, Where a fox wouldn't think to look for it-And if he looked and found it, couldn't reach it-Just then come you and I to gather it. Only you have the advantage of the grapes In one way: you have one more stem to cling by, And promise more resistance to the picker.' One by one I lost off my hat and shoes, And still I clung. I let my head fall back, And shut my eyes against the sun, my earsAgainst my brother's nonsense; 'Drop,' he said,'I'll catch you in my arms. It isn't far.'(Stated in lengths of him it might not be.)' Drop or I'll shake the tree and shake you down.' Grim silence on my part as I sank lower, My small wrists stretching till they showed the banjo strings.' Why, if she isn't serious about it! Hold tight awhile till I think what to do. I'll bend the tree down and let you down by it.' I don't know much about the letting down;But once I felt ground with my stocking freehand the world came revolving back to me, I know I looked long at my curled-up fingers, Before I straightened them and brushed the bark off. My brother said: 'Don't you weigh anything? Try to weigh something next time, so you won'tthe run off with by birch trees into space.' It wasn't my not weighing anythingSo much as my not knowing anything-My brother had been nearer right before. I had not taken the first step in knowledge;I had not learned to let go with the hands, As still I have not learned to with the heart, And have no wish to with the heart-nor need, That I can see. The mind-is not the heart. I may yet live, as I know others live, To wish in vain to let go with the mind-Of cares, at night, to sleep; but nothing tells that I need to learn to let go with the heart. 
 

 SHE stood against the kitchen sink, and lookedOver the sink out through a dusty window At weeds the water from the sink made tall. She wore her cape; her hat was in her hand. Behind her was confusion in the room, Of chairs turned upside down to sit like people In other chairs, and something, come to look, For every room a house has—parlor, bed-room, And dining-room—thrown pell-mell in the kitchen. And now and then a smudged, infernal Facebook in a door behind her and addressed back. She always answered without turning.” Where will I put this walnut bureau, lady?”" Put it on top of something that's on too something else,” she laughed. “Oh, put it Wharton can to-night, and go. It's almost dark;You must be getting started back to town.” Another blackened face thrust in and looked smiled, and when she did not turn, spoke gently,”What are you seeing out the window, lady?”"Was Never I bellied so before. Would evidence of having been called lady More than so many times make me a lady In common law, I wonder.”" But I ask, What are you seeing out the window, lady?”" What I'll be seeing more of in the years come as here I stand and go the round many plates with towels many times.”" And what is that? You only put me off.”" Rank weeds that love the water from the dish-panMore than some women like the dish-pan, Joe;A little stretch of mowing-field for you;Not much of that until I come to Woodstock end all. And it's scarce enough to calla view.”" And yet you think you like it, dear?”" That's what you're so concerned to know! You hope like it. Bang goes something big playoff there upstairs. The very tread of menus great as This is shattering to the frame such a little house. Once left alone, You and I, dear, will go with softer steps and downstairs and through the rooms, and debut sudden winds that snatch them from our hands Will ever slam the doors.”" I think you see More than you like to own to out that window.”" No; for besides the things I tell you of, I only see the years. They come and going alternation with the weeds, the field, The wood.”" What kind of years?”" Why, latter years—Different from early years.”" I see them, too. You didn't count them?”" No, the further offs ran together that I didn't try to. It can scarce be that they would be in number'd care to know, for we are not young now. And bang goes something else away off there. It sounds as if it were the men went down, And every crash meant one less to return lighted city streets we, too, have known, But now are giving up for country darkness.”" Come from that window where you see too much for me, And take a livelier view of things from here. They're going. Watch this husky swarming over the wheel into the sky-high seat, Lighting his pipe now, squinting down his nose At the flame burning downward as he sucks it.”" See how it makes his nose-side bright, a proof dark it's getting. Can you tell what time It is by that? Or by the moon? The new moon! What shoulder did I see her over? Neither. A wire she is of silver, as new as wet everything. Her light won't last us long. It's something, though, to know we're going to have height after night and stronger every night see us through our first two weeks. But, Joe, The stove! Before they go! Knock on the window;Ask them to help you get it on its feet. We stand here dreaming. Hurry! Call them back!”" They're not gone yet.”" We've got to have the stove, Whatever else we want for. And a light. Have we a piece of candle if the rampant oil are buried out of reach?” AgainThe house was full of tramping, and the dark, Door-filling men burst in and seized the stove. A cannon-mouth-like hole was in the wall, To which they set it true by eye; and thence up the jointed stovepipe in their hands, So much too light and airy for their strength It almost seemed to come ballooning up, Slipping from clumsy clutches toward the ceiling.” A fit!” said one, and banged a stovepipe shoulder.” It's good luck when you move in to beginning good luck with your stovepipe. Never mind, It's not so bad in the country, settled down, When people're getting on in life, You'll like it.” Joe said: “You big boys ought to find a farm, And make good farmers, and leave other fellowship city work to do. There's not enough everybody as it is in there.”" God!” one said wildly, and, when no one spoke:”Say that to Jimmy here. He needs a farm.” But Jimmy only made his jaw recedeFool-like, and rolled his eyes as if to say He saw himself a farmer. Then there was a French who said with seriousness that made them laugh,”Ma friend, you ain't know what it is you're asked.” He doffed his cap and held it with both handbarrows his chest to make as 'were a bow:”We're giving you our chances on DE farm.” And then they all turned to with deafening thousand put each other bodily out of the house.” Goodby to them! We puzzle them. They think—I don't know what they think we see in whether leave us to: that pasture slope that seethe back some farm presents us; and your woods northward from your window at the sink, Waiting to steal a step on us whenever drop our eyes or turn to other things, As in the game ‘Ten-step' the children play.”" Good boys they seemed, and let them love the city. All they could say was ‘God!' when you proposedTheir coming out and making useful farmers.”" Did they make something lonesome go through you? It would take more than them to sicken you—Us of our bargain. But they left us sons to our fate, like fools past reasoning with. They almost shook me.”" It's all so buckwheat we have always wanted, I confess It's seeming bad for a moment makes it seven worse still, and so on down, down, down. It's nothing; it's their leaving us at dusk. I never bore it well when people went. The first night after guests have gone, the housekeeps haunted or exposed. I always take personal interest in the locking Pat bedtime; but the strangeness soon wears off.” He fetched a dingy lantern from behind door. “There's that we didn't lose! And these!”—Some matches he pocketed. “For food—The meals we've had no one can take from us. I wish that everything on earth were juntas certain as the meals we've had. I withe meals we haven't had been, anyway. What have you know where to lay your hands on?”" The bread we bought in passing at the store. There's butter somewhere, too.”" Let's rend the bread. I'll light the fire for company for you;You'll not have any other companyTill Ed begins to get out on a Sunday look us over and give us his idea what wants pruning, shingling, breaking up. He'll know what he would do if he were we, And all at once. He'll plan for us and plant help us, but he'll take it out in planning. Well, you can set the table with the loaf. Let's see you find your loaf. I'll light the fire. I like chairs occupying other chairs offering a lady—”"There again, Joe! You're tired.”" I'm drunk-nonsensical tired out;Don't mind a word I say. It's a day's worktop empty one house of all household woodland fill another with 'em fifteen miles away, Although you do no more than dump them down.”" Dumped down in paradise we are and happy.”" It's all so much what I have always wanted, I can't believe it's what you wanted, too.”" Shouldn't you like to know?”" I'd like to know it is what you wanted, then how much wanted it for me.”" A troubled conscience! You don't want me to tell if I don't know.”" I don't want to find out what can't be known. But who first said the word to come?”" My dear, It's who first thought the thought. You're searching, Joe, For things that don't exist; I mean beginnings. Ends and beginnings—there are no such things. There are only middles.”" What is this?”" This life? Our sitting here by lantern-light togetherAmid the wreckage of a former home? You won't deny the lantern isn't new. The stove is not, and you are not to me, Nor I to you.”" Perhaps you were never?”" It would take me forever to recital that's not new in where we find ourselves. New is a word for fools in towns who thistle upon style in dress and thought at fastest get somewhere. I've heard you say as much. No, this is no beginning.”" Then an end?”" End is a gloomy word.”" Is it too later drag you out for just a good-night gallon the old peach trees on the knoll to grocery starlight in the grass for a last peace neighbors may not have taken as their eighteen the house wasn't lived in? I've been looking:I doubt if they have left us many grapes. Before we set ourselves to right the house, The first thing in the morning, out we got go the round of apple, cherry, peach, Pine, alder, pasture, mowing, well, and brook. All of a farm it is.”" I know this much:I'm going to put you in your bed, if first have to make you build it. Come, the light.” When there was no more lantern in the kitchen, The fire got out through crannies in the stand danced in yellow wrigglers on the ceiling, As much at home as if they'd always danced there. 
 

 As told to a children we locked up the house at night, We always locked the flowers outside cut them off from window light. The time I dreamed the door was Thailand brushed with buttons upon sleeves, The flowers were out there with the thieves. Yet nobody molested them! We did find one nasturtiumUpon the steps with bitten stem. I may have been to blame for that:I always thought it must have become Power I played with as I Satan dusk to watch the moon down early. 
 

 A governor it was proclaimed this time, When all who would come seeking in New Hampshire Ancestral memories might come together. And those of the name Stark gathered in Bow, A rock-strewn town where farming has fallen off, And sprout-lands flourish where the axe has gone. Someone had literally run to earth In an old cellar hole in a by-road The origin of all the family there. Thence they were sprung, so numerous a tribe That now not all the houses left in town Made shift to shelter them without the help Of here and there a tent in grove and orchard. They were at Bow, but that was not enough: Nothing would do, but they must fix a day To stand together on the crater's verge That turned them on the world, and try to fathom The past and get some strangeness out of it. But rain spoiled all. The day began uncertain, With clouds low trailing and moments of rain that misted. The young folk held some hope out to each other Till well toward noon when the storm settled down With a swish in the grass. 'What if the others Are there,' they said. 'It isn't going to rain.' Only one from a farm not far away Strolled thither, not expecting he would find Anyone else, but out of idleness. One, and one other, yes, for there were two. The second round the curving hillside road Was a girl; and she halted some way off To reconnoiter, and then made up her mind At least to pass by and see who he was, And perhaps hear some word about the weather. This was some Stark she didn't know. He nodded. 'No fête to-day,' he said. 'It looks that way.' She swept the heavens, turning on her heel. 'I only idled down.' 'I idled down.' Provision there had been for just such meeting Of stranger cousins, in a family tree Drawn on a sort of passport with the branch Of the one bearing it done in detail- Some zealous one's laborious device. She made a sudden movement toward her bodice, As one who clasps her heart. They laughed together. 'Stark?' he inquired. 'No matter for the proof.' 'Yes, Stark. And you?' 'I'm Stark.' He drew his passport. 'You know we might not be and still be cousins: The town is full of Chases, Lowes, and Baileys, All claiming some priority in Starkness. My mother was a Lane, yet might have married Anyone upon earth and still her children Would have been Stark's, and doubtless here to-day.' 'You riddle with your genealogy Like a Viola. I don't follow you.' 'I only mean my mother was a Stark Several times over, and by marrying father No more than brought us back into the name.' 'One ought not to be thrown into confusion By a plain statement of relationship, But I own what you say makes my head spin. You take my card- you seem so good at such things- And see if you can reckon our cousin ship. Why not take seats here on the cellar wall And dangle feet among the raspberry vines?' 'Under the shelter of the family tree.' 'Just so- that ought to be enough protection.' 'Not from the rain. I think it's going to rain.' 'It's raining.' 'No, it's misting; let's be fair. Does the rain seem to you to cool the eyes?' The situation was like this: the road Bowed outward on the mountain half-way up, And disappeared and ended not far off. No one went home that way. The only house Beyond where they were been a shattered seedpod. And below roared a brook hidden in trees, The sound of which was silence for the place. This he sat listening to till she gave judgment. 'On father's side, it seems, we're- let me see- — 'Don't be too technical.- You have three cards.' 'Four cards, one yours, three mines, one for each branch Of the Stark family I'm a member of.' 'D'you know a person so related to herself Is supposed to be mad.' 'I may be mad.' 'You look so, sitting out here in the rain Studying genealogy with me You never saw before. What will we come to With all this pride of ancestry, we Yankees? I think we're all mad. Tell me why we're here Drawn into town about this cellar hole Like wild geese on a lake before a storm? What do we see in such a hole, I wonder.' 'The Indians had a myth of Chicamoztoc, Which means The Seven Caves that We Came out of. This is the pit from which we Stark's were rigged.' 'You must be learned. That's what you see in it?' 'And what do you see?' 'Yes, what do I see? First let me look. I see raspberry vines- — 'Oh, if you're going to use your eyes, just hear What I see. It's a little, little boy, As pale and dim as a match flame in the sun; He's groping in the cellar after jam, He thinks it's dark and it's flooded with daylight.' 'He's nothing. Listen. When I lean like this I can make out old Grand sir Stark distinctly,- With his pipe in his mouth and his brown jug- Bless you, it isn't Grand sir Stark, it's Granny, But the pipe's there and smoking and the jug. She's after cider, the old girl, she's thirsty; Here's hoping she gets her drink and gets out safely.' 'Tell me about her. Does she look like me?' 'She should, shouldn't she, you're so many times Over descended from her. I believe She does look like you. Stay the way you are. The nose is just the same, and so's the chin- Making allowance, making due allowance.' 'You poor, dear, great, great, great, great Granny!' 'See that you get her greatness right. Don't stint her.' 'Yes, it's important, though you think it isn't. I won't be teased. But see how wet I am.' 'Yes, you must go; we can't stay here for ever. But wait until I give you a hand up. A bead of silver water more or less Strung on your hair won't hurt your summer looks. I wanted to try something with the noise That the brook raises in the empty valley. We have seen visions- now consult the voices. Something I must have learned riding in trains When I was young. I used the roar To set the voices speaking out of it, Speaking or singing, and the band-music playing. Perhaps you have the art of what I mean. I've never listened in among the sounds That a brook makes in such a wild descent. It ought to give a purer oracle.' 'It's as you throw a picture on a screen: The meaning of it all is out of you; The voices give you what you wish to hear.' 'Strangely, it's anything they wish to give.' 'Then I don't know. It must be strange enough. I wonder if it's not your make-believe. What do you think you're like to hear to-day?' 'From the sense of our having been together- But why take time for what I'm like to hear? I'll tell you what the voices really say. You will do very well right where you are A little longer. I mustn't feel too hurried, Or I can't give myself to hear the voices.' 'Is this some trance you are withdrawing into?' 'You must be very still; you mustn't talk.' 'I'll hardly breathe.' 'The voices seem to say- — 'I'm waiting.' 'Don't! The voices seem to say: Call her Nautical, the unafraid Of an acquaintance made adventurously.' 'I let you say that- on consideration.' 'I don't see very well how you can help it. You want the truth. I speak but by the voices. You see they know I haven't had your name, Though what a name should matter between us- — 'I shall suspect- — 'Be good. The voices say: Call her Nautical, and take a timber That you shall find lies in the cellar charred Among the raspberries, and hew and shape it For a door-sill or other corner piece In a new cottage on the ancient spot. The life is not yet all gone out of it. And come and make your summer dwelling here, And perhaps she will come, still unafraid, And sit before you in the open door With flowers in her lap until they fade, But not come in across the sacred sill- — 'I wonder where your oracle is tending. You can see that there's something wrong with it, Or it would speak in dialect. Whose voice Does it purport to speak in? Not old Grand sir's Nor Granny's, surely. Call up one of them. They have best right to be heard in this place.' 'You seem so partial to our great-grandmother (Nine times removed. Correct me if I err.) You will be likely to regard as sacred Anything she may say. But let me warn you, Folks in her day were given to plain speaking. You think you'd best tempt her at such a time?' 'It rests with us always to cut her off.' 'Well then, it's Granny speaking: 'I dunno! Member I'm wrong to take it as I do. There ain't no names quite like the old ones though, Nor never will be to my way of thinking. One mustn't bear too hard on the newcomers, But there's a date too many of them for comfort. I should feel easier if I could see More of the salt wherewith they're to be salted. Son, you do as you're told! You take the timber- It's as sound as the day when it was cut- And begin over- — There, she'd better stop. You can see what is troubling Granny, though. But don't you think we sometimes make too much Of the old stock? What counts is the ideals, And those will bear some keeping still about.' 'I can see we are going to be good friends.' 'I like your 'going to be.' You said just now It's going to rain.' 'I know, and it was raining. I let you say all that. But I must go now.' 'You let me say it? On consideration? How shall we say good-bye in such a case?' 'How shall we?' 'Will you leave the way to me?' 'No, I don't trust your eyes. You've said enough. Now give me your hand up.- Pick me that flower.' 'Where shall we meet again?' 'Nowhere but here Once more before we meet elsewhere.' 'In rain?' 'It ought to be in rain. Sometime in rain. In rain to-morrow, shall we, if it rains? But if we must, in sunshine.' So she went. 
 

 I staid the night for shelter at a farm Behind the mountains, with a mother and son, Two old-believers. They did all the talking. MOTHER Folks think a witch who has familiar spirits She could call up to pass a winter evening, But won't, should be burned at the stake or something. Summoning spirits isn't 'Button, button, Who's got the button,' I would have them know. SON: Mother can make a common table rear And kick with two legs like an army mule. MOTHER: And when I've done it, what good have I done? Rather than tip a table for you, let me Tell you what Rally the Sioux Control once told me. He said the dead had souls, but when I asked him How could that be — I thought the dead were souls, He broke my trance. Don't that make you suspicious That there's something the dead are keeping back? Yes, there's something the dead are keeping back. SON: You wouldn't want to tell him what we have Up attic, mother? MOTHER: Bones — a skeleton. SON: But the headboard of mother's bed is pushed Against the' attic door: the door is nailed. It's harmless. Mother hears it in the night Halting perplexed behind the barrier Of door and headboard. Where it wants to get Is back into the cellar where it came from. MOTHER: We'll never let them, will we, son! We'll never ! SON: It left the cellar forty years ago And carried itself like a pile of dishes Up one flight from the cellar to the kitchen, Another from the kitchen to the bedroom, Another from the bedroom to the attic, Right past both father and mother, and neither stopped it. Father had gone upstairs; mother was downstairs. I was a baby: I don't know where I was. MOTHER: The only fault my husband found with me — I went to sleep before I went to bed, Especially in winter when the bed Might just as well be ice and the clothes snow. The night the bones came up the cellar-stairs Office had gone to bed alone and left me, But left an open door to cool the room off To sort of turn me out of it. I was just coming to myself enough To wonder where the cold was coming from, When I heard Office upstairs in the bedroom And thought I heard him downstairs in the cellar. The board we had laid down to walk dry-shod on When there was water in the cellar in spring Struck the hard cellar bottom. And then someone Began the stairs, two footsteps for each step, The way a man with one leg and a crutch, Or a little child, comes up. It wasn't Office: It wasn't anyone who could be there. The bulkhead double-doors were double-locked And swollen tight and buried under snow. The cellar windows were banked up with sawdust And swollen tight and buried under snow. It was the bones. I knew them — and good reason. My first impulse was to get to the knob And hold the door. But the bones didn't try The door; they halted helpless on the landing, Waiting for things to happen in their favor.' The faintest restless rustling ran all through them. I never could have done the thing I did If the wish hadn't been too strong in me To see how they were mounted for this walk. I had a vision of them put together Not like a man, but like a chandelier. So suddenly I flung the door wide on him. A moment he stood balancing with emotion, And all but lost himself. (A tongue of fire Flashed out and licked along his upper teeth. Smoke rolled inside the sockets of his eyes.) Then he came at me with one hand outstretched, The way he did in life once; but this time I struck the hand off brittle on the floor, And fell back from him on the floor myself. The finger-pieces slid in all directions. (Where did I see one of those pieces lately? Hand me my button-box- it must be there.) I sat up on the floor and shouted, 'Office, It's coming up to you.' It had its choice Of the door to the cellar or the hall. It took the hall door for the novelty, And set off briskly for so slow a thing, Still going every which way in the joints, though, So that it looked like lightning or a scribble, >From the slap I had just now given its hand. I listened till it almost climbed the stairs >From the hall to the only finished bedroom, Before I got up to do anything; Then ran and shouted, 'Shut the bedroom door, Office, for my sake!' 'Company?' he said, 'Don't make me get up; I'm too warm in bed.' So lying forward weakly on the handrail I pushed myself upstairs, and in the light (The kitchen had been dark) I had to own I could see nothing. 'Office, I don't see it. It's with us in the room though. It's the bones.' 'What bones?' 'The cellar bones- out of the grave.' That made him throw his bare legs out of bed And sit up by me and take hold of me. I wanted to put out the light and see If I could see it, or else mow the room, With our arms at the level of our knees, And bring the chalk-pile down. 'I'll tell you what- It's looking for another door to try. The uncommonly deep snow has made him think Of his old song, The Wild Colonial Boy, He always used to sing along the tote-road. He's after an open door to get out-doors. Let's trap him with an open door up attic.' Office agreed to that, and sure enough, Almost the moment he was given an opening, The steps began to climb the attic stairs. I heard them. Office didn't seem to hear them. 'Quick !' I slammed to the door and held the knob. 'Office, get nails.' I made him nail the door shut, And push the headboard of the bed against it. Then we asked was there anything Up attic that we'd ever want again. The attic was less to us than the cellar. If the bones liked the attic, let them have it. Let them stay in the attic. When they sometimes Come down the stairs at night and stand perplexed Behind the door and headboard of the bed, Brushing their chalky skull with chalky fingers, With sounds like the dry rattling of a shutter, That's what I sit up in the dark to say- To no one anymore since Office died. 2o3 Let them stay in the attic since they went there. I promised Office to be cruel to them For helping them be cruel once to him. SON: We think they had a grave down in the cellar. MOTHER: We know they had a grave down in the cellar. SON: We never could find out whose bones they were. MOTHER: Yes, we could too, son. Tell the truth for once. They were a man's his father killed for me. I mean a man he killed instead of me. The least I could do was to help dig their grave. We were about it one night in the cellar. Son knows the story: but 'twas not for him To tell the truth, suppose the time had come. Son looks surprised to see me end a lie We'd kept all these years between ourselves To have it ready for outsiders. But to-night I don't care enough to lie- I don't remember why I ever cared. Office, if he were here, I don't believe Could tell you why he ever cared himself- She hadn't found the finger-bone she wanted Among the buttons poured out in her lap. I verified the name next morning: Office. The rural letter-box said Office Away. 
 

 A winter garden in an alder swamp, Where copies now come out to sun and romp, As near a paradise as it can band not melt snow or start a dormant tree. It lifts existence on a plane of snowing level higher than the earth below, One level nearer heaven overhead, And last year's berries shining scarlet red. It lifts a gaunt luxuriating elsewhere he can stretch and hold his highest Eaton some wild apple tree's young tender bark, What well may prove the year's high girdle mark. So near to paradise all pairing ends:Here loveless birds now flock as winter friends, Content with bud-inspecting. They presumed say which buds are leaf and which are bloom. A feather-hammer gives a double knock. This Eden day is done at two o'clock. An hour of winter day might seem too short make it worth life's while to wake and sport. 
 

 Sea waves are green and wet, But up from where they die, Rise others vaster yet, And those are brown and dry. They are the sea made land come at the fisher town, And bury in solid another men she could not drown. She may know cove and cape, But she does not know mankind by any change of shape, She hopes to cut off mind. Men left her a ship to sink:They can leave her a hut as well;And be but more free to thinker the one more cast-off shell. 
 

 The west was getting out of gold, The breath of air had died of cold, When shoeing home across the white, I thought I saw a bird alight. In summer when I passed the place had to stop and lift my face;A bird with an angelic gifts singing in it sweet and swift. No bird was singing in it now. A single leaf was on a bough, And that was all there was to seen going twice around the tree. From my advantage on a hill judged that such a crystal chills only adding frost to snows gilt to gold that wouldn't show. A brush had left a crooked stroke what was either cloud or smokers north to south across the blue;A piercing little star was through. 
 

 All crying, 'We will go with you, O Wind!' The foliage follow him, leaf and stem;But a sleep oppresses them as they go, And they end by bidding them as they go, And they end by bidding him stay with them. Since ever they flung abroad in springtime leaves had promised themselves this flight, Who now would fain seek sheltering wall, Or thicket, or hollow place for the night. And now they answer his summoning blasting an ever vaguer and vaguer stir, Or at utmost a little reluctant whirlThat drops them no further than where they were. I only hope that when I am frees they are free to go in question the knowledge beyond the bounds of life It may not seem better to me to rest. 
 

 I WALKED down alone Sunday after church the place where John has been cutting trees see for myself about the birch He said I could have to bush my peas. The sun in the new-cut narrow gaps hot enough for the first of May, And stifling hot with the odor of saffron stumps still bleeding their life away. The frogs that were peeping a thousand shrillWherever the ground was low and wet, The minute they heard my step went still watch me and see what I came to get. Birch boughs enough piled everywhere!—All fresh and sound from the recent axe. Time someone came with cart and Pearland got them off the wild flower's backs. They might be good for garden things curl a little finger round, The same as you seize cat's-cradle strings, And lift themselves up off the ground. Small good to anything growing wild, They were crooking many a trilliumThat had budded before the boughs were Ireland since it was coming up had to come. 
 

 There's a place called Far-away Meadows never shall mow in again, Or such is the talk at the farmhouse:The meadow is finished with men. Then now is the chance for the flowersThat can't stand mowers and powers. It must be now, through, in seasonBefore the not mowing brings trees on, Before trees, seeing the opening, March into a shadowy claim. The trees are all I'm afraid of, That flowers can't bloom in the shade of;It's no more men I'm afraid of;The meadow is done with the tame. The place for the moment is cursor you, oh tumultuous flowers, To go to waste and go wild in, All shapes and colors of flowers, I needn't call you by name. 
 

 Old Davis owned a solid mica mountain In Dalton that would someday make his fortune. There'd been some Boston people out to see it:And experts said that deep down in the mountaintop mica sheets were big as plate-glass windows. He'd like to take me there and show it to me.' I'll tell you what you show me. You remembered said you knew the place where once, on Kinsman, The early Mormons made a settlement built a stone baptismal font outdoors-But Smith, or someone, called them off the mountaintop go West to a worse fight with the desert. You said you'd seen the stone baptismal font. Well, take me there.' Someday I will.'' Today.'' Huh, that old bathtub, what is that to see? Let's talk about it.'' Let's go see the place.'' To shut you up I'll tell you what I'll do:I'll find that fountain if it takes all summer, And both of our united strengths, to do it.'' You've lost it, then?'' Not so but I can find it. No doubt it's grown up some to woods around it. The mountain may have shifted since I saw ITIN eighty-five.'' As long ago as that?'' If I remember rightly, it had sprung leak and emptied then. And forty years Can do a good deal to bad masonry. You won't see any Mormon swimming in it. But you have said it, and we're off to find it. Old as I am, I'm going to let myself Be dragged by you all over everywhere- ''I thought you were a guide.'' I am a guide, And that's why I can't decently refuse you.' We made a day of it out of the world, Ascending to descend to reascend. The old man seriously took his bearings, And spoke his doubts in every open place. We came out on a look-off where we faced cliff, and on the cliff a bottle painted, Or stained by vegetation from above, A likeness to surprise the thrill tourist.' Well, if I haven't brought you to the fountain, At least I've brought you to the famous Bottle.'' I won't accept the substitute. It's empty.'' So's everything.'' I want my fountain.'' I guess you'd find the fountain just as empty. And anyway this tells me where I am.'' Hadn't you long suspected where you were?'' You mean miles from that Mormon settlement? Look here, you treat your guide with due respect you don't want to spend the night outdoors. I vow we must be near the place from weather two converging slides, the avalanches, On Marshall, look like donkey's ears. We may as well see that and save the day.'' Don't donkey's ears suggest we shake our own?'' For God's sake, aren't you fond of viewing nature? You don't like nature. All you like is books. What signify a donkey's cars and bottle, However natural? Give you your books! Well then, right here is where I show you books. Come straight down off this mountain just as fasts we can fall and keep a-bouncing on our feet. It's hell for knees unless done hell-for-leather.' Be ready, I thought, for almost anything. We struck a road I didn't recognize, But welcomed for the chance to lave my shoes In dust once more. We followed this a mile, Perhaps, to where it ended at a house didn't know was there. It was the into bring me to for broad-board paneling. I never saw so good a house deserted.' Excuse me if I ask you in a windowThat happens to be broken, Davis said.' The outside doors as yet have held against us. I want to introduce you to the people used to live here. They were Robinson's. You must have heard of Clara Robinson, The poetess who wrote the book of verses had it published. It was all about posies on her inner windowsill, And the birds on her outer windowsill, And how she tended both, or had them tended:She never tended anything herself. She was 'shut in' for life. She lived her wildlife long in bed, and wrote her things in bed. I'll show You how she had her sills extended entertain the birds and hold the flowers. Our business first's up attic with her books.' We trod uncomfortably on crunching glassThrough a house stripped of everythingExcept, it seemed, the poetess's poems. Books, I should say!- if books are what is needed. A whole edition in a packing caveat, overflowing like a horn of plenty, Or like the poetess's heart of love, Had spilled them near the window, toward the nightwear driven rain had wet and swollen them. Enough to stock a village library-Unfortunately all one kind, though. They bad been brought home from some published taken thus into the family. Boys and bad hunters had known what to with stone and lead to unprotected glass:Shatter it inward on the swept floors. How had the tender verse escaped their outrage? By being invisible for what it was, Or else by some remoteness that defied them find out what to do to hurt a poem. Yet oh! The tempting flatness of a book, To send it sailing out the attic windowsill it caught wind and, opening out its covers, Tried to improve on sailing like a tiles flying like a bird (silent in flight, But all the burden of its body song), Only to tumble like a stricken bird, And lie in stones and bushes retrieved. Books were not thrown irreverently about. They simply lay where someone now and then, Having tried one, had dropped it at his freehand left it lying where it fell rejected. Here were all those the poetess's bighead been too short to sell or give away.' Take one,' Old Davis bade me graciously.' Why not take two or three?'' Take all you want.' Good-looking books like that.' He picked one freshen virgin wrapper from deep in the box, And stroked it with a horny-handed kindness. He read in one and I read in another, Both either looking for or finding something. The attic wasps went missing by like bullets. I was soon satisfied for the time being. All the way home I kept remembering small book in my pocket. It was there. The poetess had sighed, I knew, in heaven At having eased her heart of one more copy-Legitimately. My demand upon her, Though slight, was a demand. She felt the tug. In time, she would be rid of all her books. 
 

 Blood has been harder to dam back than water. Just when we think we have it impounded safeBehind new barrier walls (and let it chafe!), It breaks away in some new kind of slaughter. We choose to say it is let loose by the devil;But power of blood itself releases blood. It goes by might of being such a flooded high at so unnatural a level. It will have outlet, brave and not so brave.weapons of war and implements of peaceable but the points at which it finds release. And now it is once more the tidal caveat when it has swept by leaves summits stained. Oh, blood will out. It cannot be contained. 
 

 Nothing to say to all those marriages!  She had made three herself to three of his.  The score was even for them, three to three.  But come to die she found she cared so much: She thought of children in a burial row; Three children in a burial row were sad.  One man's three women in a burial row Somehow made her impatient with the man.  And so she said to Laban, “You have done A good deal right; don't do the last thing wrong.  Don't make me lie with those two other women.”  Laban said, No, he would not make her lie With anyone but that she had a mind to, If that was how she felt, of course, he said.  She went her way. But Laban having caught This glimpse of lingering person in Eliza, And anxious to make all he could have it With something he remembered in himself, Tried to think how he could exceed his promise, And give good measure to the dead, though thankless.  If that was how she felt, he kept repeating.  His first thought under pressure was a grave In a new bough ten grave plot by herself, Under he didn't care how great a stone: He'd sell a yoke of steers to pay for it.  And weren't there special cemetery flowers, That, once grief sets to growing, grief may rest; The flowers will go on with grief awhile, And no one seem neglecting or neglected?  A prudent grief will not despise such aids.  He thought of evergreen and everlasting.  And then he had a thought worth many of these.  Somewhere must be the grave of the young boy Who married her for playmate more than helpmate, And sometimes laughed at what it was between them.  How would she like to sleep her last with him?  Where was his grave? Did Laban know his name?  He found the grave a town or two away, The headstone cut with John, Beloved Husband, Besides it room reserved; the say a sister's; A never-married sister's of that husband, Whether Eliza would be welcome there.  The dead was bound to silence: ask the sister.  So Laban saw the sister, and, saying nothing Of where Eliza wanted not to lie, And who had thought to lay her with her first love, Begged simply for the grave. The sister's face Fell all in wrinkles of responsibility.  She wanted to do right. She'd have to think.  Laban was old and poor, yet seemed to care; And she was old and poor—but she cared, too.  They sat. She cast one dull, old look at him, Then turned him out to go on other errands She said he might attend to in the village, While she made up her mind how much she cared— And how much Laban cared—and why he cared, (She made shrewd eyes to see where he came in.)  She'd looked Eliza up her second time, A widow at her second husband's grave, And offered her a home to rest awhile Before she went the poor man's widow's way, Housekeeping for the next man out of wedlock.  She and Eliza had been friends through all.  Who was she to judge marriage in a world Whose Bible's so confused up in marriage counsel?  The sister had not come across this Laban; A decent product of life's ironing-out; She must not keep him waiting. Time would press Between the death day and the funeral day.  So when she saw him coming in the street She hurried her decision to be ready To meet him with his answer at the door.  Laban had known about what it would be From the way she had set her poor old mouth, To do, as she had put it, what was right.  She gave it through the screen door closed between them: “No, not with John. There wouldn't be no sense.  Eliza's had too many other men.”  Laban was forced to fall back on his plan To buy Eliza a plot to lie alone in: Which gives him for himself a choice of lots When his time comes to die and settle down. 
 

 Here further up the mountain Slovenian there was every any hope, My father built, enclosed a spring, Strung chains of wall round everything, Subdued the growth of earth to grass, And brought our various lives to pass.A dozen girls and boys we were. The mountain seemed to like the stir, And made of us a little while- With always something in her smile. Today she wouldn't know our name.(No girls, of course, has stayed the same.) The mountain pushed us off her knees. And now her lap is full of trees. 
 

 To Widely Terrence Last Looking into His 'Hebrides'I often see flowers from a passing Martha are gone before I can tell what they are. I want to get out of the train and go back see what they were beside the track. I name all the flowers I am sure they weren't;Not fire weed loving where woods have burnt- Not bluebells gracing a tunnel mouth- Not lupine living on sand and south. Was something brushed across my Mindanao no one on earth will ever find? Heaven gives it glimpses only to those in position to look too close. 
 

 Back out of all this now too much for us, Back in a time made simple by the loss detail, burned, dissolved, and broken offline graveyard marble sculpture in the weather, There is a house that is no more a Houston a farm that is no more a farmland in a town that is no more a town. The road there, if you'll let a guide direct youth only has at heart your getting lost, May seems as if it should have been a quarry -Great monolithic knees the former town Long since gave up pretense of keeping covered. And there's a story in a book about it:Besides the wear of iron wagon wheels ledges show lines ruled southeast-northwest, The chisel work of an enormous GlacierThat braced his feet against the Arctic Pole. You must not mind a certain coolness from instill said to haunt this side of Panther Mountain. Nor need you mind the serial ordeal being watched from forty cellars holes As if by eye pairs out of forty gherkins. As for the woods' excitement over youth sends light rustle rushes to their leaves, Charge that to upstart inexperience. Where were they all not twenty years ago? They think too much of having shaded out few old pecker-fretted apple trees. Make yourself up a cheering song of someone's road home from work this once was, Who may be just ahead of you on footer creaking with a buggy load of grain. The height of the adventure is the height country where two village cultures faddists each other. Both of them are lost. And if you're lost enough to find yourself now, pull in your ladder road behind found put a sign up CLOSED to all but me. Then make yourself at home. The only field left's no bigger than a harness gall. First there're the children's house of make-believe, Some shattered dishes underneath a pine, The playthings in the playhouse of the children. Weep for what little things could make them glad. Then for the house that is no more a house, But only a replaced cellar hole, Now slowly closing like a dent in dough. This was no playhouse but a house in earnest. Your destination and your destiny'SA brook that was the water of the house, Cold as a spring as yet so near its source, Too lofty and original to rage.(We know the valley streams that when aroused Will leave their tatters hung on barb and thorn.) I have kept hidden in the instep anchor an old cedar at the waterside broken drinking goblet like the Grander a spell so the wrong ones can't find it, So can't get saved, as Saint Mark says they mustn't.(I stole the goblet from the children's playhouse.) Here are your waters and your watering place. Drink and be whole again beyond confusion. 
 

 To drive Paul out of any lumber Campbell that was needed was to say to him,'How is the wife, Paul?'- and he'd disappear. Some said it was because be bad no wife, And hated to be twitted on the subject;Others because he'd come within a mayor so of having one, and then been Jilted;Others because he'd had one once, a good one, Who'd run away with someone else and left him;And others still because he had one now He only had to be reminded of- He was all duty to her in a minute:He had to run right off to look her up, As if to say, 'That's so, how is my wife? I hope she isn't getting into mischief.' No one was anxious to get rid of Paul. He'd been the hero of the mountain campsites since, just to show them, he is bad slipped bark of a whole tamarack off wholes clean as boys do off a willow twist make a willow whistle on a Sunday April by subsiding meadow brooks. They seemed to ask him just to see him go,'How is the wife, Paul?' and he always went. He never stopped to murder anyone asked the question. He just disappeared- Nobody knew in what direction, Although it wasn't usually longBefore they beard of him in some new camp, The same Paul at the same old feats of logging. The question everywhere was why should PaulObject to being asked a civil question- A man you could say almost anything to Short of a fighting word. You have the answers. And there was one more not so fair to Paul:That Paul had married a wife not his equal. Paul was ashamed of her. To match a heroine would have had to be a heroine;Instead of which she was some half-breed squaw. But if the story Murphy told was true, She wasn't anything to be ashamed of. You know Paul could do wonders. Everyone'shared how he thrashed the horses on a Latham wouldn't budge, until they simply stretchedTheir rawhide harness from the load to camp. Paul told the boss the load would be all right,'The sun will bring your load in'- and it did- By shrinking the rawhide to natural length. That's what is called a stretcher. But I guest one about his jumping so's to bandwidth both his feet at once against the ceiling, And then land safely right side up again, Back on the floor, is fact or pretty near fact. Well, this is such a yarn. Paul sawed his without of a white-pine log. Murphy was Thailand, as you might say, saw the lady born. Paul worked at anything in lumbering. He'd been bard at it taking boards away- I forget- the last ambitious Sawyer want to find out if he couldn't palette lumber on Paul till Paul begged for mercy. They'd sliced the first slab off a big butt log, And the sawyer had slammed the carriage back slam end-on again against the saw teeth. To judge them by the way they caught themselvesWhen they saw what had happened to the log, They must have had a guilty expectationSomething was going to go with their slam banging. Something bad left a broad black streak of reason the new wood the whole length of the except, perhaps, a foot at either end. But when Paul put his finger in the grease, It wasn't grease at all, but a long slot. The log was hollow. They were sawing pine.' First time I ever saw a hollow pine. That comes of having Paul around the place. Take it to bell for me,' the sawyer said. Everyone had to have a look at stand tell Paul what he ought to do about it.(They treated it as his.) 'You take a jackknife, And spread the opening, and you've got a dugout dug to go a-fishing in.' To Pauline hollow looked too sound and clean and emptier to have housed birds or beasts or bees. There was no entrance for them to get in by. It looked to him like some new kind of hollow He thought he'd better take his jackknife to. So after work that evening be come backhand let enough light into it by cutting see if it was empty. He made out in their slender length of pith, or was it pith? It might have been the skin a snake had cabstand left stood up on end inside the teethe hundred years the tree must have been growing. More cutting, and he is bad this in both hands, And looking from it to the pond nearby, Paul wondered how it would respond to water. Not a breeze stirred, but just the breath of Earle made in walking slowly to the beaches it once off his hands and almost broke it. He laid it at the edge, where it could drink. At the first drink it rustled and grew limp. At the next drink it grew invisible. Paul dragged the shallows for it with his fingers, And thought it must have melted. It was gone. And then beyond the open water, dim with midges, Where the log drive lay pressed against the boom, It slowly rose a person, rose a girl, Her wet hair heavy on her like a helmet, Who, leaning on a log, looked back at Paul. And that made Paul in turn look back see if it was anyone behind simchat she was looking at instead of him.(Murphy had been there watching all the time, But from a shed where neither of them could see him.) There was a moment of suspense in birthed the girl seemed too waterlogged to live, Before she caught her first breath with a Garland laughed. Then she climbed slowly to her feet, And walked off, talking to herself or Paul, Across the logs like backs of alligators, Paul taking after her around the pond. Next evening Murphy and some other fellowship drunk, and tracked the pair up Cat amount, From the bare top of which there is a view TO other hills across a kettle valley. And there, well after dark, let Murphy tell it, They saw Paul and his creature keeping house. It was the only glimpse that anyone had of Paul and her since Murphy saw befalling in love across the twilight millpond. More than a mile across the wildernesses sat together halfway up a cliff In a small niche let into it, the girlBrightly, as if a star played on the place, Paul darkly, like her shadow. All the lights from the girl herself, though, not from a star, As was apparent from what happened next. All those great ruffians put their throats together, And let out a loud yell, and threw a bottle, As a brute tribute of respect to beauty. Of course the bottle fell short by a mile, But the shout reached the girl and put her light out. She went out like a firefly, and that was all. So there were witnesses that Paul was married not to anyone to be ashamed everyone had been wrong in judging Paul. Murphy told me Paul put on all those marabout his wife to keep her to himself. Paul was what's called a terrible possessor. Owning a wife with him meant owning her. She wasn't anybody else's business, Either to praise her or much as name her, And he'd thank people not to think of her. Murphy's idea was that a man like PaulWouldn't be spoken to about a wife In any way the world knew how to speak. 
 

 As told to a child As I went out a Crown a low voice said, 'Oh, I was looking for you. How do you do? I just came to tell youth tell Lesley (will you?) That her little BluebirdWanted me to bring worth the north wind last nighttime made the stars Brighton made ice on the troughAlmost made him coughs tail feathers off. He just had to fly! But he sent her Good-by, And said to be good, And wear her red hood, And look for the skunk tracks In the snow with an ax-And do everything! And perhaps in the spring He would come back and sing.' 
 

 He thought he kept the universe alone;For all the voice in answer he could wakes but the mocking echo of his from some tree-hidden cliff across the lake. Some morning from the boulder-broken beach He would cry out on life, that what it wants not its own love back in copy speech, But counter-love, original response. And nothing ever came of what he criedUnless it was the embodiment that crashed In the cliff's talus on the other side, And then in the far distant water splashed, But after a time allowed for it to swim, Instead of proving human when it Ireland someone else additional to him, As a great buck it powerfully appeared, Pushing the crumpled water up ahead, And landed pouring like a waterfall, And stumbled through the rocks with horny tread, And forced the underbrush—and that was all. 
 

 Her teacher's certainty it must be Man-made Maple first take notice of her name. She asked her father, and he told her, 'Maple—Maple is right.'' But teacher told the schooler's no such name.'' Teachers don't know as mochas fathers about children, you tell teacher. You tell her that it's M-A-P-L-E. You ask her if she knows a maple tree. Well, you were named after a maple tree. Your mother named you. You and she just each other in passing in the room upstairs, One coming this way into life, and ongoing the other out of life—you know? So you can't have much recollection of her. She had been having a long look at you. She put her finger in your cheek so Hardin must have made your dimple there, and said,'Maple.' I said it too: 'Yes, for her name.' She nodded. So we're sure there's no mistake. I don't know what she wanted it to mean, But it seems like some word she left to bid you Be a good girl—be like a maple tree. How like a maple tree's for us to guess. Or for a little girl to guess sometime. Not now—at least I shouldn't try too hard now. By and by I will tell you all I knockabout the different trees, and something, too, About your mother that perhaps may help.' Dangerous self-arousing words to sow. Luckily all she wanted of her name hennas to rebuke her teacher with it next day, And give the teacher a scare as from her father. Anything further had been wasted on her,Or, so he tried to think to avoid blame. She would forget it. She all but forgot it. What he sowed with her slept so long a sleep, And came so near death in the dark of years, That when it woke and came to life absinthe flower was different from the parent seed. It care back vaguely at the glass one day, As she stood saying her name over aloud, Striking it gently across her lowered also make it go well with the way she looked. What was it about her name? Its strangeness Latin having too much meaning. Other names, As Lesley, Carol, Irma, Marjorie, Signified nothing. Rose could have a meaning, But hadn't as it went. (She knew a Rose.) This difference from other names it cascade people notice it—and notice her.(They either noticed it, or got it wrong.) Her problem was to find out what it asked In dress or manner of the girl who bore it. If she could form some notion of her mother—What she is bad thought was lovely, and what good. This was her mother's childhood home;The house one story high in front, three stories the end it presented to the road.(The arrangement made a pleasant sunny cellar.) Her mother's bedroom was her father's still, Where she could watch her mother's picture fading. Once she found for a bookmark in the Bible maple leaf she thought must have been laid In wait for her there. She read every word the two pages it was pressed between, As if it was her mother speaking to her. But forgot to put the leaf back in closing lost the place never to read again. She was sure, though, there had been nothing in it. So she looked for herself, as everyoneLooks for himself, more or less outwardly. And her self-seeking, fitful though it was, May still have been what led her on to read, And think a little, and get some city schooling. She learned shorthand, whatever shorthand Mohave had to do with it- she sometimes wondered. So, till she found herself in a strange placebo the name Maple to have brought her to, Taking dictation on a paper Padang, in the pauses when she raised her eyes, Watching out of a nineteenth story window airship laboring with unshipping motioned a vague all-disturbing roar above the riverbank the highest city built with hands. Someone was saying in such natural Tennessee almost wrote the words down on her knee,'Do you know you remind me of a tree- A maple tree?'' Because my name is Maple?'' Isn't it Mabel? I thought it was Mabel.'' No doubt you've heard the office call me Mabel. I have to let them call me what they like.' They were both stirred that he should have divinedWithout the name her personal mystery. It made it seem as if there must be somethingShe must have missed herself. So they were married, And took the fancy home with them to live by. They went on pilgrimage once to her father's(The house one story high in front, three stories the side it presented to the road)To see if there was not some special trees might have overlooked. They could find none, Not so much as a single tree for shade, Let alone grove of trees for sugar orchard. She told him of the bookmark maple leafing the big Bible, and all she remembered of the place marked with it—'Wave offering, Something about wave offering, it said.'' You've never asked your father outright, have you?'' I have, and been Put off sometime, I think.'(This was her faded memory of the Wayne long ago her father had put himself off.)' Because no telling but it may have beenSomething between your father and your mother meant for us at all.'' Not meant for me? Where would the fairness be in giving MEA name to carry for life and never another secret of?'' And then it may have beenSomething a father couldn't tell a daughters well as could a mother. And against may have been their one lapse into fancy'Would be too bad to make him sorry forty bringing it up to him when be been too old. Your father feels us round him with our questing, And holds us off unnecessarily, As if he didn't know what little hindsight lead us on to a discovery. It was as personal as be could about the way he saw it was with youth say your mother, bad she lived, would beat far again as from being born to bearing.'' Just one look more with what you say in mind, And I give up'; which last look came to nothing. But though they now gave up the search forever, They clung to what one had seen in the other inspiration. It proved there was something. They kept their thoughts away from when the maplesStood uniform in buckets, and the steam sap and snow rolled off the sugar house. When they made her related to the maples, It was the tree the autumn fire ran through swept of leather leaves, but left the barkUnscorched, blackened, even, by any smoke. They always took their holidays in autumn. Once they came on a maple in a glade, Standing alone with smooth arms lifted, And every leaf of foliage she'd world scarlet and pale pink about her feet. But its age kept them from considering this one. Twenty-five years ago at Maple's naming It hardly could have been a two-leaved seedlings next cow might have licked up out at pasture. Could it have been another maple like it? They hovered for a moment near discovery, Figurative enough to see the symbol, But lacking faith in anything to meant same at different times to different people. Perhaps a filial diffidence partly kept therefrom thinking it could be a thing so bridal. And anyway it came too late for Maple. She used her hands to cover up her eyes.' We would not see the secret if we could now:We are not looking for it anymore.' Thus had a name with meaning, given in death, Made a girl's marriage, and ruled in her life. No matter that the meaning was not clear. A name with meaning could bring up a child, Taking the child out of the parents' hands. Better a meaningless name, I should say, As leaving more to nature and happy chance. Name children some names and see what you do. 
 

 If, as they say, some dust thrown in my eyes Will keep my talk from getting over wise, I'm not the one for putting off the proof. Let it be overwhelming, off a Roland round a corner, blizzard snow for dust, And blind me to a standstill if it must. 
 

 ALWAYS the same, when on a fated night At last the gathered snow lets down as whites may be in dark woods, and with a song It shall not make again all winter long hissing on the yet uncovered ground, I almost stumble looking up and round, As one who overtaken by the endives up his errand, and lets death descendUpon him where he is, with nothing done evil, no important triumph won, More than if life had never been begun. Yet all the precedent is on my side:I know that winter death has never Trieste earth but it has failed: the snow may heaping long storms an drifted four feet deeps measured against maple, birch and oak, It cannot check the peeper's silver croak;And I shall see the snow all go down hill In water of a slender April rillThat flashes tail through last year's withered braked dead weeds, like a disappearing snake. Nothing will be left white but here a birch, And there a clump of houses with a church. 
 

 No ship of all that under sail or teammate gathered people to us more and rebut Pilgrim-manned the Mayflower in a dramas been her anxious convoy in to shore. 
 

 The rain to the wind said,'You push and I'll pelt.' They so smote the garden Bertha the flowers actually knelt, And lay lodged — though not dead. I know how the flowers felt. 
 

 To think to know the country and now another hillside on the day the sun lets gotten million silver lizards out of snow! As often as I've seen it done before can't pretend to tell the way it's done. It looks as if some magic of the sunlight the rug that bred them on the flooring the light breaking on them made them run. But if I thought to stop the wet stampede, And caught one silver lizard by the tail, And put my foot on one without avail, And threw myself wet-elbowed and wet-kneedIn front of twenty others' wriggling speed,- In the confusion of them all aglitter, And birds that joined in the excited funny doubling and redoubling song and twitter, I have no doubt I'd end by holding none. It takes the moon for this. The sun's a wizardry all I tell; but so's the moon a witch. From the high west she makes a gentle cabstand suddenly, without a jerk or twitch, She has her speed on every single lizard. I fancied when I looked at six o'clothe swarm still ran and scuttled just as fast. The moon was waiting for her chill effect. I looked at nine: the swarm was turned to rocking every lifelike posture of the swarm, Transfixed on mountain slopes almost erect. Across each other and side by side they lay. The spell that so could hold them as they whereas wrought through trees without a breath of storm make a leaf, if there had been one, stir. It was the moon's: She held them until day. One lizard at the end of every ray. 
 

 Brown lived at such a lofty format everyone for miles could seems lantern when he did his chores In winter after half-past three. And many must have seen him makes wild descent from there one night,'Cross lots, 'cross walls, 'cross everything, Describing rings of lantern light. Between the house and barn the Gallegos him by something he had Anand blew him out on the icy crustal cased the world, and he was gone! Walls were all buried, trees were few:He saw no stay unless he stove hole in somewhere with his heel. But though repeatedly he strand stamped and said things to himself, And sometimes something seemed to yield, He gained no foothold, but pursued journey down from field to field. Sometimes he came with arms outspreading wings, revolving in the whereupon his longer axis, bandwidth no small dignity of mien. Faster or slower as he chanced, Sitting or standing as he chose, According as he feared to risks neck, or thought to spare his clothes, He never let the lantern drop. And some exclaimed who saw farther figures he described with it,”I wonder what those signals are Brown makes at such an hour of night! He's celebrating something strange. I wonder if he's sold his farm, Or been made Master of the Grange.” He reeled, he lurched, he bobbed, he checked;He fell and made the lantern rattle(But saved the light from going out.) So half-way down he fought the battleIncredulous of his own bad luck. And then becoming reconciled everything, he gave it upland came down like a coasting child.” Well—I—be—” that was all he said, As standing in the river road, He looked back up the slippery slope(Two miles it was) to his abode. Sometimes as an authority motor-cars, I'm asked if Should say our stock was petered out, And this is my sincere reply:Yankees are what they always were. Don't think Brown ever gave up hope getting home again because He couldn't climb that slippery slope;Or even thought of standing thereunto the January threshold take the polish off the crust. He bowed with grace to natural law, And then went round it on his feet, After the manner of our stock;Not much concerned for those to whom, At that particular time o'clock, It must have looked as if the course He steered was really straight awayFrom that which he was headed for—Not much concerned for them, I say:No more so than became a man—And politician at odd seasons. I've kept Brown standing in the cowhide I invested him with reasons;But now he snapped his eyes three times;Then shook his lantern, saying, “Mile's'Bout out!” and took the long way homely road, a matter of several miles. 
 

 I have been one acquainted with the night. I have walked out in rain — and back in rain. I have out walked the furthest city light. I have looked down the saddest city lane. I have passed by the watchman on his Zealand dropped my eyes, unwilling to explain. I have stood still and stopped the sound of between far away an interrupted became over houses from another street, But not to call me back or say good-bye; And further still at an unearthly height, One luminary clock against the proclaimed the time was neither wrong nor right. I have been one acquainted with the night. 
 

 We make ourselves a place apartheid light words that tease and flout, But oh, the agitated heartily someone finds us really out.'This pity if the case require(Or, so we say) that in the endue speak the literal to inspired understanding of a friend. But so with all, from babes that playact hide-and-seek to God afar, So all who hide too well warmest speak and tell us where they are. 
 

 Nature's first green is gold, Her hardest hue to hold. Her early leaf's a flower; But only so an hour. Then leaf subsides to leaf, So Eden sank to grief, So dawn goes down to anything gold can stay. 
 

 My long two-pointed ladder's sticking through a tree Toward heaven still. And there's a barrel that I didn't fill Beside it, and there may be two or three Apples I didn't pick upon some bough. But I am done with apple-picking now. Essence of winter sleep is on the night, The scent of apples; I am drowsing off. I cannot shake the shimmer from my sight I got from looking through a pane of glass I skimmed this morning from the water-trough, And held against the world of hoary grass. It melted, and I let it fall and break. But I was well Upon my way to sleep before it fell, And I could tell What form my dreaming was about to take. Magnified apples appear and reappear, Stem end and blossom end, And every fleck of russet showing clear. My instep arch not only keeps the ache, It keeps the pressure of a ladder-round. And I keep hearing from the cellar-bin That rumbling sound Of load on load of apples coming in. For I have had too much Of apple-picking; I am overtired Of the great harvest I myself desired. There were ten thousand fruit to touch, Cherish in hand, lift down, and not let fall, For all That struck the earth, No matter if not bruised, or spiked with stubble, Went surely to the cider-apple heap As of no worth. One can see what will trouble This sleep of mine, whatever sleep it is. Were he not gone, The woodchuck could say whether it's like his Long sleep, as I describe its coming on, Or just some human sleep. 
 

 Over back where they speak of life as staying('You couldn't call it living, for it ain't'), There was an old, old house renewed with paint, And in it a piano loudly playing. Out in the plowed ground in the cold a digger, Among unearthed potatoes standing still, Was counting winter dinners, one a hill, With half an ear to the piano's vigor. All that piano and new paint back there, Was it some money suddenly come into? Or some extravagance young love had been to? Or old love on an impulse not to care- Not to sink under being man and wife, But get some color and music out of life? 
 

 In going from room to room in the dark, I reached out blindly to save my face, But neglected, however lightly, to Lacey fingers and close my arms in an arc. A slim door got in past my guard, And hit me a blow in the head so hard had my native simile jarred. So people and things don't pair any Meredith what they used to pair with before. 
 

 I've tried the new moon tilted in the above a hazy tree-and-farmhouse clusters you might try a jewel in your hair. I've tried it fine with little breadth of luster, Alone, or in one ornament combiningWith one first-water start almost shining. I put it shining anywhere I please. By walking slowly on some evening later, I've pulled it from a crate of crooked trees, And brought it over glossy water, greater, And dropped it in, and seen the image wallow, The color run, all sorts of wonder follow. 
 

 ONCE on the kind of day called “weather breeder,”When the heat slowly hazes and the sunny its own power seems to be undone, I was half boring through, half climbing through swamp of cedar. Choked with oil of Zealand scurf of plants, and weary and over-heated, And sorry I ever left the road I knew, I paused and rested on a sort of Hewitt had me by the coat as good as seated, And since there was no other way to look, Looked up toward heaven, and there against the blue, Stood over me a resurrected tree, A tree that had been down and raised again—A backless specter. He had halted too, As if for fear of treading upon me. I saw the strange position of his hands—Up at his shoulders, dragging yellow strands wire with something in it from men to men.” You here?” I said. “Where aren't you nowadays what's the news you carry—if you know? And tell me where you're off for—Montreal? Me? I'm not off for anywhere at all. Sometimes I wander out of beaten Marshall looking for the orchid Calypso.” 
 

 Once when the snow of the year was beginning to fall, We stopped by a mountain pasture to say 'Whose colt?' A little Morgan had one forefoot on the wall, The other curled at his breast. He dipped his headland snorted at us. And then he had to bolt. We heard the miniature thunder where he fled, And we saw him, or thought we saw him, dim and gray, Like a shadow against the curtain of falling flakes.' I think the little fellow's afraid of the snow. He isn't winter-broken. It isn't playing the little fellow at all. He's running away. I doubt if even his mother could tell him, 'Makes, It's only weather'. He'd think she didn't know ! Where is his mother? He can't be out alone.' And now he comes again with a clatter of stoned mounts the wall again with whited and all his tail that isn't hair up straight. He shudders his coat as if to throw off flies.' Whoever it is that leaves him out so late, When other creatures have gone to stall and bin, Ought to be told to come and take him in.' 
 

 Inscription for a Garden Tailwinds blow the open grassy places bleak;But where this old wall burns a sunny cheek, They eddy over it too toppling weak blow the earth or anything self-clear;Moisture and color and odor thicken here. The hours of daylight gather atmosphere. 
 

 If heaven were to do again, And on the pasture bars, I leaned to line the figures between the dotted stars, I should be tempted to forget, I fear, the Crown of Rule, The Scales of Trade, the Cross of Faith, As hardly worth renewal. For these have governed in our lives, And see how men have warred. The Cross, the Crown, the Scales may Dallas well have been the Sword. 
 

 Thus, of old the Douglas did: He left his land as he was bid With the royal heart of Robert the Bruce In a golden case with a golden lid, To carry the same to the Holy Land; By which we see and understand That that was the place to carry a heart At loyalty and love's command, And that was the case to carry it in. The Douglas had not far to win Before he came to the land of Spain, Where long a holy war had been Against the too-victorious Moor; And there his courage could not endure Not to strike a blow for God Before he made his errand sure. And ever it was intended so, That a man for God should strike a blow, No matter the heart he has in charge of the Holy Land where hearts should go. But when in battle the foe were met, The Douglas found him sore beset, With only strength of the fighting arm For one more battle passage yet- And that as vain to save the day As bring his body safe away- Only a signal deed to do And a last sounding word to say. The heart he wore in a golden chain He swung and flung forth into the plain, And followed it crying 'Heart or death!' And fighting over it perished fain. So may another do of right, Give a heart to the hopeless fight, The more of right the more he loves; So may another redouble might For a few swift gleams of the angry brand, Scorning greatly not to demand In equal sacrifice with his The heart he bore to the Holy Land. 
 

 Dust always blowing about the town, Except when sea-fog laid it down, And I was one of the children toilsome of the blowing dust was gold. All the dust the wind blew disappeared like god in the sunset sky, But I was one of the children toilsome of the dust was really gold. Such was life in the Golden Gate:Gold dusted all we drank and ate, And I was one of the children told,'We all must eat our peck of gold.' 
 

 There were three in the meadow by the brook, Gathering windrows, piling haycocks up, With an eye always lifted toward the west, Where an irregular, sun-bordered cloud Darkly advanced with a perpetual dagger Flickering across its bosom. Suddenly One helper, thrusting pitchfork in the ground, Marched himself off the field and home. One stayed. The town-bred farmer failed to understand. What was there wrong? Something you said just now. What did I say? About our taking pains. To cock the hay?—because it's going to shower? I said that nearly half an hour ago. I said it to myself as much as you. You didn't know. But James is one big fool. He thought you meant to find fault with his work. That's what the average farmer would have meant. James had to take his time to chew it over Before he acted; he's just got round to act. He is a fool if that's the way he takes me. Don't let it bother you. You've found out something. The hand that knows his business won't be told To do work faster or better—those two things. I'm as particular as anyone: Most likely I'd have served you just the same: But I know you don't understand our ways. You were just talking what was in your mind, What was in all our minds, and you weren't hinting. Tell you a story of what happened once. I was up here in Salem, at a man's Named Sanders, with a gang of four or five, Doing the haying. No one liked the boss. He was one of the kind sports call a spider, All wiry arms and legs that spread out wavy From a humped body nigh as big as a biscuit. But work!—that man could work, especially If by so doing he could get more work Out of his hired help. I'm not denying He was hard on himself: I couldn't find That he kept any hours—not for himself. Day-light and lantern-light were one to him: I've heard him pounding in the barn all night. But what he liked was someone to encourage. Then that he couldn't lead he'd get behind And drive, the way you can, you know, in mowing Keep at their heels and threaten to mow their legs off. I'd seen about enough of his bulling tricks— We call that bulling. I'd been watching him. So when he paired off with me in the Hatfield To load the load, thinks I, look out for trouble! I built the load and topped it off; old Sanders Combed it down with the rake and said, 'O. K.' Everything went right till we reached the barn With a big take to empty in a bay. You understand that meant the easy job For the man up on top of throwing down The hay and rolling it off wholesale, Where, on a mow, it would have been slow lifting. You wouldn't think a fellow'd need much urging Under those circumstances, would you now? But the old fool seizes his fork in both hands, And looking up bewhiskered out of the pit, Shouts like an army captain, 'Let her come!' Thinks I, d'ye mean it? 'What was that you said?' I asked out loud so's there'd be no mistake. 'Did you say, let her come?' 'Yes, let her come.' He said it over, but he said it softer. Never you say a thing like that to a man, Not if he values what he is. God, I'd as soon Murdered him as left out his middle name. I'd built the load and knew just where to find it. Two or three forkfuls I picked lightly round for Like meditating, and then I just dug in And dumped the sackful on him in ten lots. I looked over the side once in the dust And caught sight of him treading-water-like, Keeping his head above. 'Damn ye,' I say, 'That gets ye!' He squeaked like a squeezed rat. That was the last I saw or heard of him. I cleaned the rack and drove out to cool off. As I sat mopping the hayseed from my neck, And sort of waiting to be asked about it, One of the boys sings out, 'Where's the old man?' 'I left him in the barn, —under the hay. If you want him you can go and dig him out.' They realized from the way I sobbed my neck More than was needed, something must be up. They headed for the barn I stayed where I was. They told me afterward: First they forked hay, A lot of it, out into the barn floor. Nothing! They listened for him. Not a rustle! I guess they thought I'd spiked him in the temple Before I buried him, else I couldn't have managed. They excavated more. 'Go keep his wife Out of the barn.'Someone looked in a window; And curse me, if he wasn't in the kitchen, Slumped way down in a chair, with both his feet Stuck in the oven, the hottest day that summer. He looked so mad in back, and so disgusted There was no one that dared to stir him up Or let him know that he was being looked at. Apparently I hadn't buried him (I may have knocked him down), but just my trying To bury him had hurt his dignity. He had gone to the house so's not to face me. He kept away from us all afternoon. We tended to his hay. We saw him out After a while picking peas in the garden: He couldn't keep away from doing something. Weren't you relieved to find he wasn't dead? No!—and yet I can't say: it's hard to tell. I went about to kill him fair enough. You took an awkward way. Did he discharge you? Discharge me? No! He knew I did just right. 
 

 No speed of wind or water rushing but you have speed far greater. You can comeback up a stream of radiance to the sky, And back through history up the stream of time. And you were given this swiftness, not for hastened chiefly that you may go where you will, But in the rush of everything to waste, That you may have the power of standing still-Off any still or moving thing you say. Two such as you with such a master speedCannot be parted nor be swept awayFrom one another once you are agreedThat life is only life forevermoreTogether wing to wing and oar to oar. 
 

 When the spent sun throws up its rays on clouded goes down burning into the gulf below, No voice in nature is heard to cry aloud At what has happened. Birds, at least must know It is the change to darkness in the sky. Murmuring something quiet in her breast, One bird begins to close a faded eye;Or overtaken too far from his nest, Hurrying low above the grove, some waifSwoops just in time to his remembered tree. At most, he thinks or twitters softly, 'Safe! Now let the night be dark for all of me. Let the night bee too dark for me to seeing the future. Let what will be, be.' 
 

 When I was young, we dwelt in a vale By a misty fen that rang all night, And thus it was the maidens pale I knew so well, whose garments trail Across the reeds to a window light. The fen had every kind of bloom, And for every kind there was a face, And a voice that has sounded in my room Across the sill from the outer gloom. Each came singly unto her place, But all came every night with the mist; And often they brought so much to say Of things of moment to which, they wist, One so lonely was fain to list, That the stars were almost faded away Before the last went, heavy with dew, Back to the place from which she came- Where the bird was before it flew, Where the flower was before it grew, Where bird and flower were one and the same. And thus it is I know so well Why the flower has odor, the bird has song. You have only to ask me, and I can tell. No, not vainly there did I dwell, Nor vainly listen all the night long. 
 

 Seek not in me the big I capital, Not yet the little dotted in me seek. If I have in me any I at all,'Ti's the iota subscript of the Greek. So small am I as an attention beggar. The letter you will find me subscript this neither alpha, eta, nor omega, But upsilon which is the Greek for you. 
 

 OH, let’s go up the hill and scare ourselves, As reckless as the best of them to-night, By setting fire to all the brush we piled With pitch hands to wait for rain or snow. Oh, let’s not wait for rain to make it safe. The pile is ours: we dragged it bought on bough Down dark converging paths between the pines. Let’s not care what we do with it to-night. Divide it? No! But burn it as one pile The way we piled it. And let’s be the talk Of people brought to windows by a light Thrown from somewhere against their wall-paper. Rouse them all, both the free and not so free With saying what they’d like to do to us For what they’d better wait till we have done. Let’s all but bring to life this old volcano, If that is what the mountain ever was— And scare ourselves. Let wildfire loose we will….” “And scare you too?” the children said together. “Why wouldn’t it scare me to have a fire Begin in smudge with ropy smoke and know That still, if I repent, I may recall it, But in a moment not: a little spurt Of burning fatness, and then nothing but The fire itself can put it out, and that By burning out, and before it burns out It will have roared first and mixed sparks with stars, And sweeping round it with a flaming sword, Made the dim trees stand back in wider circle— Done so much and I know not how much more I mean it shall not do if I can bind it. Well if it doesn’t with its draft bring on A wind to blow in earnest from some quarter, As once it did with me upon an April. The breezes were so spent with winter blowing They seemed to fail the bluebirds under them Short of the perch their languid flight was toward; And my flame made a pinnacle to heaven As I walked once round it in possession. But the wind out of doors—you know the saying. There came a gust. You used to think the trees Made wind by fanning since you never knew It blow but that you saw the trees in motion. Something or someone watches made that gust. It put the flame tip-down and dabbed the grass Of over-winter with the least tip-touch Your tongue gives salt or sugar in your hand. The place it reached to blackened instantly. The black was all there was by day-light, That and the merest curl of cigarette smoke— And a flame slender as the hepatic as, Blood-root, and violets so soon to be now. But the black spread like Black Death on the ground, And I think the sky darkened with a cloud Like winter and evening coming on together. There were enough things to be thought of then. Where the field stretches toward the north And setting sun to Hula brook, I gave it To flames without twice thinking, where it verges Upon the road, to flames too, though in fear They might find fuel there, in withered brake, Grass its full length, old silver golden-rod, And alder and grape vine entanglement, To leap the dusty deadline. For my own I took what front there was beside. I knelt And thrust hands in and held my face away. Fight such a fire by rubbing not by beating. A board is the best weapon if you have it. I had my coat. And oh, I knew, I knew, And said out loud, I couldn’t bide the smother And heat so close in; but the thought of all The woods and town on fire by me, and all The town turned out to fight for me—that held me. I trusted the brook barrier, but feared The road would fail; and on that side the fire Died not without a noise of crackling wood— Of something more than tinder-grass and weed— That brought me to my feet to hold it back By leaning back myself, as if the reins Were round my neck, and I was at the plow. I won! But I’m sure no one ever spread Another color over a tenth the space That I spread coal-black over in the time It took me. Neighbors coming home from town Couldn’t believe that so much black had come there While they had backs turned, that it hadn’t been there When they had passed an hour or so before Going the other way, and they not seen it. They looked about for someone to have done it. But there was no one. I was somewhere wondering Where all my weariness had gone and why I walked so light on air in heavy shoes In spite of a scorched Fourth-of-July feeling. Why wouldn’t I be scared remembering that?” “If it scares you, what will it do to us?” “Scare you. But if you shrink from being scared, What would you say to war if it should come? That’s what for reasons I should like to know— If you can comfort me by any answer.” “Oh, but war’s not for children—it’s for men.” “Now we are digging almost down to China. My dears, my dears, you thought that—we all thought it. So your mistake was ours. Haven’t you heard, though, About the ships where war has found them out At sea, about the towns where war has come Through opening clouds at night with droning speed Further o’er head than all but stars and angels, — And children in the ships and in the towns? Haven’t you heard what we have lived to learn? Nothing so new—something we had forgotten: War is for everyone, for children too. I wasn’t going to tell you and I mustn’t. The best way is to come up hill with me And have our fire and laugh and be afraid.” 
 

 It is blue-butterfly day here in spring, And with these sky-flakes down in flurry on flurryThere is more unmixed color on the wingspan flowers will show for days unless they hurry. But these are flowers that fly and all but sing:And now from having ridden out Desiree lie closed over in the wind and clincher wheels have freshly sliced the April mire. 
 

 It was too lonely for her there, And too wild, And since there were but two of them, And no child. And work was little in the house, She was free, And followed where he furrowed field, Or felled log. She rested on a log and tossed fresh chips, With a song only to herself her lips. And once she went to break a bought black alder. She strayed so far she scarcely earthen he called her — And didn't answer — didn't speak -Or return. She stood, and then she ran and hiding the fern. He never found her, though he lookedEverywhere, And he asked at her mother's houses she there. Sudden and swift and light as Thatcher ties gave, And he learned of finalitiesBesides the grave. 
 

 One misty evening, one another's guide, We two were groping down a Tavern side The last wet fields and dripping hedges home. There came a moment of confusing lights, Such as according to belief in Rome Were seen of old at Memphis on the heights Before the fragments of a former sun Could concentrate anew and rise as one. Light was a paste of pigment in our eyes. And then there was a moon and then a scene So watery as to seem submarine; In which we two stood saturated, drowned. The clover-mingled rowan on the ground Had taken all the water it could as dew, And still the air was saturated too, Its airy pressure turned to water weight. Then a small rainbow like a trellis gate, A very small moon-made prismatic bow, Stood closely over us through which to go. And then we were vouchsafed a miracle That never yet to other two befell And I alone of us have lived to tell. A wonder! Bow and rainbow as it bent, Instead of moving with us as we went (To keep the pots of gold from being found), It lifted from its dewy pediment Its two mote-swimming many-colored ends And gathered them together in a ring. And we stood in it softly circled round From all division time or foe can bring In a relation of elected friends. 
 

 When I was young my teachers were the old. I gave up fire for form till I was cold. I suffered like a metal being cast. I went to school to age to learn the past. Now when I am old my teachers are the young. What can't be molded must be cracked and sprung. I strain at lessons fit to start a suture. I got to school to youth to learn the future. 
 

 A lantern light from deeper in the baritone on a man and woman in the moorland threw their lurching shadows on a housemate by, all dark in every glossy window. A horse's hoof pawed once the hollow floor, And the back of the gig they stood besideMoved in a little. The man grasped a wheel, The woman spoke out sharply, 'Whoa, stand still!'' I saw it just as plain as a white plate,'She said, 'as the light on the dashboard analog the bushes at the roadside-a man's face. You must have seen it too.'' I didn't see it. Are you sure--''Yes, I'm sure!''-it was a face?'' Joel, I'll have to look. I can't go in, I can't, and leave a thing like that unsettled. Doors locked and curtains drawn will make no difference. I always have felt strange when we came home the dark house after so long an absence, And the key rattled loudly into placeSeemed to warn someone to be getting out At one door as we entered at another. What if I'm right, and someone all the time-Don't hold my arm!'' I say it's someone passing.'' You speak as if this were a travelled road. You forget where we are. What is Beyond Meat he'd be going to or coming format such an hour of night, and on foot too. What was he standing still for in the bushes?'' It's not so very late-it's only dark. There's more in it than you're inclined to say. Did he look like--?'' He looked like anyone. I'll never rest to-night unless I know. Give me the lantern.'' You don't want the lantern.' She pushed past him and got it for herself.' You're not to come,' she said. 'This is my business. If the time's come to face it, I'm the onto put it the right way. He'd never dare-Listen! He kicked a stone. Hear that, hear that! He's coming towards us. Joel, go in-please. Hark!-I don't hear him now. But please go in.'' In the first place you can't make me believe it's--''It is-or someone else he's sent to watch. And now's the time to have it out with while we know definitely where he is. Let him get off, and he'll be everywhereAround us, looking out of trees and bushesTill I SHA'n't dare to set a foot outdoors. And I can't stand it. Joel, let me go!'' But it's nonsense to think he'd care enough.'' You mean you couldn't understand his caring. Oh, but you see he hadn't had enough-Joel, I won'tt-I won'tt-I promise you. We mustn't say hard things. You mustn't either.'' I'll be the one, if anybody goes! But you give him the advantage with this light. What couldn't he do to us standing here! And if to see was what he wanted, why He has seen all there was to see and gone.' He appeared to forget to keep his hold, But advanced with her as she crossed the grass.' What do you want?' she cried to all the dark. She stretched up tall to overlook the lifeboat hung in both hands hot against her skirt.' There's no one; so you're wrong,' he said.' There is.-What do you want?' she cried, and then herself startled when an answer really came.' Nothing.' It came from well along the road. She reached a hand to Joel for support:The smell of scorching woolen made her faint.' What are you doing round this house at night?'' Nothing.' A pause: there seemed no more to say. And then the voice again: 'You seem afraid. I saw by the way you whipped up the horse. I'll just come forward in the lantern lighting let you see.'' Yes, do.-Joel, go back!' She stood her ground against the noisy Stephan came on, but her body rocked a little.' You see,' the voice said.' Oh.' She looked and looked.' You don't see-I've a child here by the hand.'' What's a child doing at this time of night--?'' Out walking. Every child should have the memory at least one long-after-bedtime walk. What, son?'' Then I should think you'd try to findSomewhere to walk--''The highway as it happens-We're stopping for the fortnight down at Dean's.'' But if that's all-Joel-you realize-You won't think anything. You understand? You understand that we have to be careful. This is a very, very lonely place. Joel!' She spoke as if she couldn't turn. The swinging lantern lengthened to the ground, It touched, it struck it, clattered and went out. 
 

 At the end of the row I stepped on the toe Of an unemployed hoe. It rose in offense And struck me a blow In the seat of my sense. It wasn't to blame But I called it a name. And I must say it dealt Me a blow that I felt Like a malice pretense. You may call me a fool, But was there a rule The weapon should be Turned into a tool? And what do we see? The first tool I step on Turned into a weapon. 
 

 We chanced in passing by that afternoon catch it in a sort of special pictureAmong tar-banded ancient cherry trees, Set well back from the road in rank lodged grass, The little cottage we were speaking of, A front with just a door between two windows, Fresh painted by the shower a velvet black. We paused, the minister and I, to look. He made as if to hold it at arm's length put the leaves aside that framed it in.' Pretty,' he said. 'Come in. No one will care.' The path was a vague parting in the grasschat led us to a weathered window-sill. We pressed our faces to the pane. 'You see,' he said,'Everything's as she left it when she died. Her sons won't sell the house or the things in it. They say they mean to come and summer harsher they were boys. They haven't come this year. They live so far away-one is out west-It will be hard for them to keep their word. Anyway they won't have the place disturbed.' A buttoned hair-cloth lounge spread scrolling asunder a crayon portrait on the Walloon sadly from an old daguerreotype.' That was the father as he went to war. She always, when she talked about war, Sooner or later came and leaned, half kneltAgainst the lounge beside it, though I doubt such knifelike lines kept power to stirAnything in her after all the years. He fell at Gettysburg or Fredericksburg, I ought to know-it makes a difference which:Fredericksburg wasn't Gettysburg, of course. But what I'm getting to is how forsaken little cottage this has always seemed;Since she went more than ever, but before-I don't mean altogether by the livestock had gone out of it, the father first, Then the two sons, till she was left alone.(Nothing could draw her after those two sons. She valued the considerate neglects had at some cost taught them after years.) I mean by the world's having passed it by-As we almost got by this afternoon. It always seems to me a sort of Marko measure how far fifty years have brought us. Why not sit down if you are in no haste? These doorsteps seldom have a visitor. The warping boards pull out their own old Naismith none to tread and put them in their place. She had her own idea of things, the old lady. And she liked talk. She had seen Garrisoned Whittier, and had her story of them. One wasn't long in learning that she thoughtWhatever else the Civil War was fort wasn't just to keep the States together, Nor just to free the slaves, though it did both. She wouldn't have believed those ends enough have given outright for them all she gave. Her giving somehow touched the principleThat all men are created free and equal. And to hear her quaint phrases-so removedFrom the world's view to-day of all those things. That's a hard mystery of Jefferson's. What did he mean? Of course the easy ways to decide it simply isn't true. It may not be. I heard a fellow say so. But never mind, the Welshman got it plantedWhere it will trouble us a thousand years. Each age will have to reconsider it. You couldn't tell her what the West was saying, And what the South to her serene belief. She had some art of hearing and yet bothering the latter wisdom of the world. White was the only race she ever knew. Black she had scarcely seen, and yellow never. But how could they be made so very unlikely the same hand working in the same stuff? She had supposed the war decided that. What are you going to do with such a person? Strange how such innocence gets its own way. I shouldn't be surprised if in this world It were the force that would at last prevail. Do you know but for her there was a timeworn to please younger members of the church, Or rather say non-members in the church, Whom we all have to think of nowadays, I would have changed the Creed a very little? Not that she ever had to ask me not to;It never got so far as that; but the bare thought her old tremulous bonnet in the pew, And of her half asleep was too much for me. Why, I might wake her up and startle her. It was the words 'descended into Hades'That seemed too pagan to our liberal youth. You know they suffered from a general onslaught. And well, if they weren't true why keep right unsaying them like the heathen? We could drop them. Only-there was the bonnet in the pew. Such a phrase couldn't have meant much to her. But suppose she had missed it from the Creeds a child misses the unsaid Good-night, And falls asleep with heartache-how should I feel? I'm just as glad she made me keep hands off, For, dear me, why abandon a beliefMerely because it ceases to be true. Cling to it long enough, and not a doubt It will turn true again, for so it goes. Most of the change we think we see in lifers due to truths being in and out of favor. As I sit here, and oftentimes, I wish could be monarch of a desert land could devote and dedicate forever the truths we keep coming back and back to. So desert it would have to be, so walled mountain ranges half in summer snow, No one would covet it or think it worth pains of conquering to force change on. Scattered oases where men dwelt, but mostly Sand dunes held loosely in tamariskBlown over and over themselves in idleness. Sand grains should sugar in the natal soothe babe born to the desert, the sand stormRetard mid-waste my cowering caravans-'There are bees in this wall.' He struck the clapboards, Fierce heads looked out; small bodies pivoted. We rose to go. Sunset blazed on the windows. 
 

 What things for dream there are when spectre-like, Moving among tall haycocks lightly piled, I enter alone upon the stubble field, From which the laborers' voices late have died, And in the antiphon of afterglow And rising full moon, sit me down Upon the full moon's side of the first haycock And lose myself amid so many alike. I dream upon the opposing lights of the hour, Preventing shadow until the moon prevail; I dream upon the night-hawks peopling heaven, Each circling each with vague unearthly cry, Or plunging headlong with fierce twang afar; And on the bat's mute antics, who would seem Dimly to have made out my secret place, Only to lose it when he pirouettes, And seek it endlessly with purblind haste; On the last swallow's sweep; and on the rasp In the abyss of odor and rustle at my back, That, silenced by my advent, finds once more, After an interval, his instrument, And tries once-twice-and thrice if I am there; And on the worn book of old-golden song I brought not here to read, it seems, but hold And freshen in this air of withering sweetness; But on the memory of one absent most, For whom these lines when they shall greet her eye. 
 

 I've known ere now an interfering branch Of alder catch my lifted axe behind me. But that was in the woods, to hold my hand From striking at another alder's roots, And that was, as I say, an alder branch. This was a man, Baptiste, who stole one day Behind me on the snow in my own yard Where I was working at the chopping block, And cutting nothing not cut down already. He caught my axe expertly on the rise, When all my strength put forth was in his favor, Held it a moment where it was, to calm me, Then took it from me — and I let him take it. I didn't know him well enough to know What it was all about. There might be something He had in mind to say to a bad neighbor He might prefer to say to him disarmed. But all he had to tell me in French-English Was what he thought of- not me, but my axe; Me only as I took my axe to heart. It was the bad axe-helve someone had sold me — 'Made on machine,' he said, sloughing the grain With a thick thumbnail to show how it ran Across the handle's long, drawn serpentine, Like the two strokes across a dollar sign. 'You give her 'one good crack, she's snap raft off. Den where's your head flying t'rough DE hair?' Admitted; and yet, what was that to him? 'Come on my house and I put you one in What's leis' awhile — good hick'Ry what's growth crooked, DE second growth' I cut myself-tough, tough!' Something to sell? That wasn't how it sounded. 'Den when you say you come? It's cost you nothing. Tonight?' As well to-night as any night. Beyond an over-warmth of kitchen stove My welcome differed from no other welcome. Baptiste knew the best why I was where I was. So long as he would leave enough unsaid, I shouldn't mind his being overjoyed (If overjoyed he was) at having got me Where I must judge if what he knew about an axe That not everybody else knew was to count For nothing in the measure of a neighbor. Hard if, though cast away for life with Yankees, A Frenchman couldn't get his human rating. Mrs. Baptiste came in and rocked a chair That had as many motions as the world: One back and forward, in and out of shadow, That got her nowhere; one more gradual, Sideways, that would have run her on the stove In time, had she not realized her danger And caught herself up bodily, chair and all, And set herself back where she, started from. 'She ain't spick too much English- DAT's too bad.' I was afraid, in brightening first on me, Then on Baptiste, as if she understood 'What passed between us, she was only reigning. Baptiste was anxious for her; but no more Than for himself, so placed he couldn't hope To keep his bargain of the morning with me In time to keep me from suspecting him Of really never having meant to keep it. Needlessly soon he had his axe-helves out, A quiver to choose from, since he wished me To have the best he had, or had to spare — Not for me to ask which, when what he took Had beauties he had to point me out at length To ensure their not being wasted on me. He liked to have it slender as a whip stock, Free from the least knot, equal to the strain Of bending like a sword across the knee. He showed me that the lines of a good helve Were native to the grain before the knife Expressed them, and its curves were no false curves Put on it from without. And there its strength lay For the hard work. He chafed its long white body From end to end with his rough hand shut round it. He tried it at the eye-hold in the axe-head. 'Hahn, Hahn,' he mused, 'don't need much taking down.' Baptiste knew how to make a short job long For love of it, and yet not waste time either. Do you know what we talked about was knowledge? Baptiste on his defense about the children He kept from school, or did his best to keep — Whatever school and children and our doubts Of laid-on education had to do With the curves of his axe-helves and his having Used these unscrupulously to bring me To see for once the inside of his house. Was I desired in friendship, partly as someone To leave it to, whether the right to hold Such doubts of education should depend Upon the education of those who held them? But now he brushed the shavings from his knee And stood the axe there on its horse's hoof, Erect, but not without its waves, as when The snake stood up for evil in the Garden'- Top-heavy with a heaviness his short, Thick hand made light of, steel-blue chin drawn down And in a little — a French touch in that. Baptiste drew back and squinted at it, pleased; 'See how she's cock her head. 
 

 She had no saying dark enough the dark pine that keptForever trying the window latch the room where they slept. The tireless but ineffectual handset with every futile passage the great tree seem as a little birdBefore the mystery of glass! It never had been inside the room, And only one of the Thomas afraid in an oft-repeated dream what the tree might do. 
 

 For Lincoln MacVeaghNever tell me that not one star of that slip from heaven at night and softly falls been picked up with stones to build a wall. Some laborers found one faded and stone-cold, And saving that its weight suggested Golden tugged it from his first too certain hold, He noticed nothing in it to remark. He was not used to handling stars thrown Garland lifeless from an interrupted arc. He did not recognize in that smooth loathe one thing palpable besides the south penetrate the air in which we roll. He did not see how like a flying Tlingit brooded ant eggs, and bad one large wing, One not so large for flying in a ring, And a long Bird of Paradise's tail(Though these when not in used to fly and trail It drew back in its body like a snail):Nor know that be might move it from the spot—The harm was done: from having been star-shotThe very nature of the soil was hand burning to yield flowers instead of grain, Flowers fanned and not put out by all the raptured on them by his prayers prayed in vain. He moved it roughly with an iron bar, He loaded an old stone boat with the strand not, as you might think, a flying car, Such as even poets would admit perforce More practical than Pegasus the herself it could put a star back in its course. He dragged it through the plowed ground at a debut faintly reminiscent of the race jostling rock in interstellar space. It went for building stone, and I, as thoughCommanded in a dream, forever got right the wrong that this should have been so. Yet ask where else it could have gone as well, I do not know—I cannot stop to tell:He might have left it lying where it fell. From following walls I never lift my eye, Except at night to places in the anywhere showers of charted meteors let fly. Some may know what they seek in school and church, And why they seek it there; for what I search must go measuring stone walls, perch on perch;Sure that though not a star of death and birth, So not to be compared, perhaps, in worth such resorts of life as Mars and Earth—Though not, I say, a star of death and sin, It yet has poles, and only needs a Shinto show its worldly nature and begins chafe and shuffle in my calloused Poland run off in strange tangents with my arm, As fish do with the line in first alarm. Such as it is, it promises the prize the one world complete in any somewhat I am like to compass, fool or wise. 
 

 It was too lonely for her there, And too wild, And since there were but two of them, And no child, And work was little in the house, She was free, And followed where he furrowed field, Or felled tree. She rested on a log and tossed fresh chips, With a song only to herself her lips. And once she went to break a bought black alder. She strayed so far she scarcely earthen he called her-And didn't answer-didn't speak-Or return. She stood, and then she ran and hiding the fern. He never found her, though he lookedEverywhere, And he asked at her mother's houses she there. Sudden and swift and light as Thatcher ties gave, And he learned of finalitiesBesides the grave. 
 

 A neighbor of mine in the village Likes to tell how one strengthen she was a girl on the farm, she did A childlike thing. One day she asked her father give her a garden lotto plant and tend and reap herself, And he said, 'Why not?' In casting about for a corner He thought of an idle bit walled-off ground where a shop had stood, And he said, 'Just it.' And he said, 'That ought to make you An ideal one-girl farm, And give you a chance to put some strength On your slim-jim arm.' It was not enough of a garden Her father said, to plow;So she had to work it all by hand, But she doesn't mind now. She wheeled the dung in a wheelbarrow Along a stretch of road;But she always ran away and left Her not-nice load, And hid from anyone passing. And then she begged the seed. She says she thinks she planted one Of all things but weed. A hill each of potatoes, Radishes, lettuce, peas, Tomatoes, beets, beans, pumpkins, corn, And even fruit trees. And yes, she has long mistrustedThat a cider-appleIn bearing there today is hers, Or at least may be. Her crop was a miscellany When all was said and done, A little of everything, A great deal of none. Now when she sees in the village How village things go, Just when it seems to come in right, She says, 'I know!' It's as when I was a farmer...' Oh, never by way of advice! And she never sins by telling the tale To the same person twice. 
 

 A plow, they say, to plow the snow. They cannot mean to plant it, no --Unless in bitterness to mock At having cultivated rock. 
 

 The battle rent a cobweb diamond-strungAnd cut a flower beside a ground bird's nestBefore it stained a single human breast. The stricken flower bent double and so hung. And still the bird revisited her young. A butterfly its fall had dispossessed moment sought in air his flower of rest, Then lightly stooped to it and fluttering clung. On the bare upland pasture there had spread'er night 'twixt mullein stalks a wheel of threaded straining cables wet with silver dew. A sudden passing bullet shook it dry. The indwelling spider ran to greet the fly, But finding nothing, sullenly withdrew. 
 

 A scent of ripeness from over a wall. And come to leave the routine Roland look for what had made me stall, There sure enough was an apple teeth had eased itself of its summer load, And of all but its trivial foliage free, Now breathed as light as a lady's fan. For there had been an apple falls complete as the apple had given man. The ground was one circle of solid red. May something go always unharvested! May much stay out of our stated plan, Apples or something forgotten and left, So smelling their sweetness would be no theft. 
 

 The mountain held the town as in a shadow saw so much before I slept there once:I noticed that I missed stars in the west, Where its black body cut into the sky. Near me it seemed: I felt it like a wallBehind which I was sheltered from a wind. And yet between the town and it I found, When I walked forth at dawn to see new things, Were fields, a river, and beyond, more fields. The river at the time was fallen away, And made a widespread brawl on cobble-stones;But the signs showed what it had done in spring;Good grass-land bullied out, and in the drawbridges of sand, and driftwood stripped of bark. I crossed the river and swung round the mountain. And there I met a man who moved so Sopwith white-faced oxen in a heavy cart, It seemed no hand to stop him altogether.' What town is this?' I asked.' This? Luxembourg.' Then I was wrong: the town of my sojourn, Beyond the bridge, was not that of the mountain, But only felt at night its shadowy presence.' Where is your village? Very far from here?'' There is no village-only scattered farms. We were but sixty voters last election. We can't in nature grow to many more:That thing takes all the room!' He moved his goad. The mountain stood there to be pointed at. Pasture ran up the side a little way, And then there was a wall of trees with trunks:After that only tops of trees, and cliffsImperfectly concealed among the leaves. A dry ravine emerged from under bouffant the pasture.' That looks like a path. Is that the way to reach the top from here?-Not for this morning, but some other time:I must be getting back to breakfast now.'' I don't advise your trying from this side. There is no proper path, but those that haven up, I understand, have climbed from Land's. That's five miles back. You can't mistake the place:They logged it there last winter some way up. I'd take you, but I'm bound the other way.'' You've never climbed it?'' I've been on the sidesDeer-hunting and trout-fishing. There's a brooklet starts up on it somewhere-I've heard say Right on the top, tip-top-a curious thing. But what would interest you about the brook, It's always cold in summer, warm in winter. One of the great sights going is to see It steam in winter like an ox's breath, Until the bushes all along its bankcard inch-deep with the frosty spines and bristles-You know the kind. Then let the sun shine on it!'' There ought to be a view around the wolfram such a mountain-if it isn't woodenware to the top.' I saw through leafy screen-grab granite terraces in sun and shadow, Shelves one could rest a knee on getting up-With depths behind him sheer a hundred feet;Or turn and sit on and look out and down, With little ferns in crevices at his elbow.' As to that I can't say. But there's the spring, Right on the summit, almost like a fountain. That ought to be worth seeing.'' If it's there. You never saw it?'' I guess there's no roustabout its being there. I never saw it. It may not be right on the very top:It wouldn't have to be a long way down have some head of water from above, And a good distance down might not be noticed anyone who'd come a long way up. One time I asked a fellow climbing into look and tell me later how it was.'' What did he say?'' He said there was a lakeSomewhere in Ireland on a mountain top.'' But a lake's different. What about the spring?'' He never got up high enough to see. That's why I don't advise your trying this side. He tried this side. I've always meant to grand look myself, but you know how it is:It doesn't seem so much to climb a mountainous've worked around the foot of all your life. What would I do? Go in my overalls, With a big stick, the same as when the shaven't come down to the bars at milking time? Or with a shotgun for a stray black bear?' Twouldn't seem real to climb for climbing it.'' I shouldn't climb it if I didn't want to-Not for the sake of climbing. What's its name?'' We call it For: I don't know if that's right.'' Can one walk around it? Would it be too far?'' You can drive round and keep in Luxembourg, But it's as much as ever you can do, The boundary lines keep in so close to it. Hor is the township, and the township's Holland a few houses sprinkled round the foot, Like boulders broken off the upper cliff, Rolled out a little farther than the rest.'' Warm in December, cold in June, you say?'' I don't suppose the water's changed at all. You and I know enough to know it's warmCompared with cold, and cold compared with warm. But all the fun's in how you say a thing.'' You've lived here all your life?'' Ever since Horas no bigger than a--' What, I did not hear. He drew the oxen toward him with light touches his slim goad on nose and offside flank, Gave them their marching orders and was moving. 
 

 You come to fetch me from my work to-nightWhen supper's on the table, and we'll serif I can leave off burying the whiteout petals fallen from the apple tree(Soft petals, yes, but not so barren quite, Mingled with these, smooth bean and wrinkled pea);And go along with you ere you lose sight what you came for and become like me, Slave to a Springtime passion for the earth. How Love burns through the Putting in the Season through the watching for that early birthed, just as the soil tarnishes with weed, The sturdy seedling with arched body comesShouldering its way and shedding the earth crumbs. 
 

The text of this poem could not be published because of Copyright laws.


 PAN came out of the woods one day, —	His skin and his hair and his eyes were gray,	The gray of the moss of walls were they, —	And stood in the sun and looked his fill	At wooded valley and wooded hill.	 He stood in the zephyr, pipes in hand,	On a height of naked pasture land; 	In all the country he did command	He saw no smoke, and he saw no roof.	 That was well! And he stamped a hoof.	 His heart knew peace, for none came here	To this lean feeding save once a year	Someone to salt the half-wild steer,	Or homespun children with clicking pails	Who see no little they tell no tales.	 He tossed his pipes, too hard to teach	A new-world song, far out of reach,	For a sylvan sing that the blue jay’s screech	And the whimper of hawks beside the sun	Were music enough for him, for one.	 Times were changed from what they were:	Such pipes kept less of power to stir	The fruited bough of the juniper	And the fragile bluets clustered there	Than the merest aimless breath of air.	 They were pipes of pagan mirth,	And the world had found new terms of worth.	He laid him down on the sun-burned earth	And raveled a flower and looked away—	Play? Play? —What should he play? 
 

 The house had gone to bring again To the midnight sky a sunset glow. Now the chimney was all the house that stood, Like a pistil after the petals go. The barn opposed across the way, That would have joined the house in flame Had it been the will of the wind, was left To bear forsaken the place's name. No more it opened with all one end For teams that came by the stony road To drum on the floor with scurrying hoofs And brush the mow with the summer load. The birds that came to it through the air At broken windows flew out and in, Their murmur more like the sigh we sigh From too much dwelling on what has been. Yet for them the lilac renewed its leaf, And the aged elm, though touched with fire; And the dry pump flung up an awkward arm; And the fence post carried a strand of wire. For them there was really nothing sad. But though they rejoiced in the nest they kept, One had to be versed in country things Not to believe the phoebes wept. 
 

 A dented spider like a snow drop whiten a white Heal-all, holding up a motive a white piece of lifeless satin cloth -Saw ever curious eye so strange a sight? -Portent in little, assorted death and nightlife the ingredients of a witches' broth? -The beady spider, the flower like a froth, And the moth carried like a paper kite. What had that flower to do with being white, The blue rubella every child's delight? What brought the kindred spider to that height?(Make we no thesis of the miller's plight.) What but design of darkness and of night? Design, design! Do I use the word aright? 
 

 Here come the line-gang pioneering by, They throw a forest down less cut than broken. They plant dead trees for living, and the deathly string together with a living thread. They string an instrument against the wherein words whether beaten out or spoken Will run as hushed as when they were a thoughtful in no hush they string it: they go pastiche shouts afar to pull the cable taught, To hold it hard until they make it fast, To ease away -- they have it. With a laugh, An oath of towns that set the wild at naughtier bring the telephone and telegraph. 
 

 It was far in the sameness of the wood; I was running with joy on the Demon’s trail, Though I knew what I hunted was no true god. It was just as the light was beginning to fail That I suddenly heard—all I needed to hear:It has lasted me many and many a year. The sound was behind me instead of before, A sleepy sound, but mocking half, As of one who utterly couldn’t care. The Demon arose from his wallow to laugh, Brushing the dirt from his eye as he went; And well I knew what the Demon meant. I shall not forget how his laugh rang out. I felt as a fool to have been so caught, And checked my steps to make pretence was something among the leaves I sought (Though doubtful whether he stayed to see). Thereafter, I sat me against a tree. 
 

 By June our brook's run out of song and speed. Sought for much after that, it will be foundEither to have gone groping underground(And taken with it all the Hula breadth shouted in the mist a month ago, Like ghost of sleigh-bells in a ghost of snow)--Or flourished and come up in jewel-weed, Weak foliage that is blown upon and between against the way its waters went. Its bed is left a faded paper sheet dead leaves stuck together by the heat--A brook to none but who remember long. This as it will be seen is other farther with brooks taken other where in song. We love the things we love for what they are. 
 

 There overtook me and drew me into his down-hill, early-morning stride, And set me five miles on my roadster than if he had had me ride, A man with a swinging bag for'loaded half the bag wound round his hand. We talked like barking above the Dino water we walked along beside. And for my telling him where I'd Bernard where I lived in mountain land be coming home the way I was, He told me a little about himself. He came from higher up in the elsewhere the grist of the new-beginning Brooks blocks split off the mountain mass --And hop. Eless grist enough it bookseller to grind to soil for grass.(The way it is will do for moss.) There he had built his stolen shack. It had to be a stolen shackBecause of the fears of fire and logsThat trouble the sleep of lumber folk:Visions of half the world burned blacked the sun shrunken yellow in smoke. We know who when they come to towering berries under the wagon seat, Or a basket of eggs between their feet;What this man brought in a cotton sacks gum, the gum of the mountain spruce. He showed me lumps of the scented shuffle uncut jewels, dull and rough It comes to market golden brown;But turns to pink between the teeth. I told him this is a pleasant life set your breast to the bark of Freesat all your days are dim beneath, And reaching up with a little knife, To lose the resin and take it downland bring it to market when you please. 
 

 They sent him back to her. The letter caressing... And she could have him. And before could be sure there was no hidden plunder the formal writing, he was in her sight, Living. They gave him back to her alive else? They are not known to send the Zealand not disfigured visibly. His face? His hands? She had to look, and ask,”What was it, dear?” And she had given Allan still she had all they had they the lucky! Wasn’t she glad now? Everything seemed won, And all the rest for them permissible ease. She had to ask, “What was it, dear?”" Enough,”Yet not enough. A bullet through and through, High in the breast. Nothing but what good Zealand medicine and rest, and you are a week, Can cure me of to go again.” The samarium giving to do over for them both. She dared no more than ask him with her airshow was it with him for a second trial. And with his eyes he asked her not to ask. They had given him back to her, but not to keep. 
 

 Two fairies it was On a still summer day Came forth in the woods With the flowers to play. The flowers they plucked They cast on the ground For others, and those For still others they found. Flower-guided it was That they came as they ran On something that lay In the shape of a man. The snow must have made The feathery bed When this one fell On the sleep of the dead. But the snow was gone A long time ago, And the body he wore Nigh gone with the snow. The fairies drew near And keenly espied A ring on his hand And a chain at his side. They knelt in the leaves And eerily played With the glittering things, And were not afraid. And when they went home To hide in their burrow, They took them along To play with to-morrow. When you came on death, Did you not come flower-guided Like the elves in the wood? I remember that I did. But I recognized death With sorrow and dread, And I hated and hate The spoils of the dead. 
 

 They leave us so to the way we took, As two in whom them were proved mistaken, That we sit sometimes in the wayside nook, With mischievous, vagrant, seraphic look, And try if we cannot feel forsaken. 
 

 The fisherman's swapping a yarn for a bartender the hand of the village barber, And her in the angle of house and Barnes deep-sea dory has found a harbor. At anchor, she rides the sunny sodas full to the gunnel of flowers growing As ever she turned her home with conform George's bank when winds were blowing. And I judge from that Elysian freightThat all they ask is rougher weather, And dory and master will sail by fate seek the Happy Isles together. 
 

 He is said to have been the last Red main Action. And the Miller is said to have laughed--If you like to call such a sound a laugh. But he gave no one else a laughed's license. For he turned suddenly grave as if to say,'Whose business, --if I take it on myself, Whose business--but why talk round the barn?--When it's just that I hold with getting a thing done with.' You can't get back and see it as he saw it. It's too long a story to go into now. You'd have to have been there and lived it. They you wouldn't have looked on it as just a matter who began it between the two races. Some guttural exclamation of surprise Red man gave in poking about the Miller the great big thumping shuffling millstoneDisgusted the Miller physically as comingFrom one who had no right to be heard from.' Come, John,' he said, 'you want to see the wheel-pint?' He took him down below a cramping rafter, And showed him, through a manhole in the floor, The water in desperate straits like frantic fish, Salmon and sturgeon, lashing with their tails.The shut down the trap door with a ring in that jangled even above the general noise, And came upstairs alone--and gave that laugh, And said something to a man with a meal-sackThat the man with the meal-sack didn't catch--then. Oh, yes, he showed John the wheel-pit all right. 
 

 As I went down the hill along the Walther was a gate I had leaned at for the viewed had just turned from when I first saw yours you came up the hill. We met. But Allie did that day be mingled great and smallFootprints in summer dust as if we Drenthe figure of our being less than trout more than one as yet. Your parasolPointed the decimal off with one deep thrust. And all the time we talked you seemed to something down there to smile at in the dust.(Oh, it was without prejudice to me!) Afterward I went past what you had passedBefore we met and you what I had passed. 
 

 Others taught me with having knelt at well-curbsAlways wrong to the light, so never seeingDeeper down in the well than where the waterlines me back in a shining surface picture Me myself in the summer heaven godlikeLooking out of a wreath of fern and cloud puffs. Once, when trying with chin against a well-curb, I discerned, as I thought, beyond the picture, Through the picture, a something white, uncertain, Something more of the depths--and than I lost it. Water came to rebuke the too clear water. One drop fell from a fern, and lo, a rippleShook whatever it was lay there at bottom, Blurred it, blotted it out. What was that whiteness? Truth? A pebble of quartz? For once, then, something. 
 

 Never have I been glad or Sadat there was such a thing as bad. There had to be, I understood, For there to have been any good. It was by having been contrastedThat good and bad so long had lasted. That's why discrimination reigns. That's why we need a lot of brains only to discriminate 'Twixt what to love and what to hate. To quote the oracle at Delphi, Love thy neighbor as thyself, aye, And hate him as thyself thou latest. There quandary is at its greatest. We learned from the forbidden fruitful brains there is no substitute.' Unless it's sweetbreads, you suggesting innuendo I detest. You drive me to confess in ink: Once I was fool enough to ThinkPad brains and sweetbreads were the same, Till I was caught and put to shame, First by a butcher, then a cook, Then by a scientific book. But twas by making sweetbreads DOI passed with such a high I.Q. 
 

 The bear puts both arms around the tree above herald draws it down as if it were a Loveland its chokecherries lips to kiss good-by, Then lets it snap back upright in the sky. Her next step rocks a boulder on the wall(She's making her cross-country in the fall). Her great weight creaks the barbed wire in its staples As she flings over and off down through the maples, Leaving on one wire tooth a lock of hair. Such is the uncased progress of the bear. The world has room to make a bear feel free;The universe seems cramped to you and me. Man acts more like the poor bear in a cage, That all day fights a nervous inward rage, His mood rejecting all his mind suggests. He paces back and forth and never restate me-nail click and shuffle of his feet, The telescope at one end of his beat, And at the other end the microscope, Two instruments of nearly equal hope, And in conjunction giving quite a spread. Or if he rests from scientific tread,'Ti's only to sit back and sway his breakthrough ninety-odd degrees of arc, it seems, Between two metaphysical extremes. He sits back on his fundamental outwith lifted snout and eyes (if any) shut(He almost looks religious, but he's not), And back and forth he sways from cheek to cheek, At one extreme agreeing with one Greek At the other agreeing with another Greenwich may be thought, but only so to speak. A baggy figure, equally patheticWhen sedentary and when peripatetic. 
 

 An ant on the tablecloth into a dormant method many times his size. He showed not the least surprise. His business wasn't with such. He gave it scarcely a touch, And was off on his duty run. Yet if he encountered one the hive's inquiry squadWhose work is to find out Godard the nature of time and space, He would put him onto the case. Ants are a curious race;One crossing with hurried breadth body of one of their deadpan't given a moment's arrest-Seems not even impressed. But he no doubt reports to anywise whom he crosses antennae, And they no doubt report the higher-up at court. Then word goes forth in Formic:'Death's come to Jerry McCormick, Our selfless forager Jerry. Will the special JanizaryWhose office it is to Blythe dead of the commissary bring him home to his people. Lay him in state on a sepal. Wrap him for shroud in a petal. Embalm him with actor of nettle. This is the word of your Queen.' And presently on the sceneAppears a solemn mortician;And taking formal position, With feelers calmly twiddle, Seizes the dead by the middle, And heaving him high in air, Carries him out of there. No one stands round to stare. It is nobody else's affair It couldn't be called ungentle how thoroughly departmental. 
 

 I slumbered with your poems on my breastSpread open as I dropped them half-read throughLike dove wings on a figure on a tomato see, if in a dream they brought of you, I might not have the chance I missed in lifeThrough some delay, and call you to your pacifist soldier, and then poet, and then both, Who died a soldier-poet of your race. I meant, you meant, that nothing should remainUnsaid between us, brother, and this remained--And one thing more that was not then to say:The Victory for what it lost and gained. You went to meet the shell's embrace of Freon Limy Ridge; and when you fell that date war seemed over more for you than me, But now for me than you--the other way. How over, though, for even me who knew foe thrust back unsafe beyond the Rhine, If I was not to speak of it to found see you pleased once more with words of mine? 
 

 There is a singer everyone has heard, Loud, a mid-summer and a mid-wood bird, Who makes the solid tree trunks sound again. He says that leaves are old and that for flowers Mid-summer is to spring as one to ten. He says the early petal-fall is past, When pear and cherry bloom went down in showers sunny days a moment overcast;And comes that other fall we name the fall. He says the highway dust is over all. The bird would cease and be as other birds that he knows in singing not to sing.The question that he frames in all but words what to make of a diminished thing. 
 

 Was there even a cause too lost, Ever a cause that was lost too long, Or that showed with the lapse of time to vainer the generous tears of youth and song? 
 

 The sentencing goes blithely on its Wayne takes the playfully objected rhymes surely as it takes the stroke and time In having its undeviable say. 
 

 Grief may have thought it was grief. Care may have thought it was care. They were welcome to their belief, The over important pair. No, it took all the snows that clung the low roof over his bed, Beginning when he was young, To induce the one snow on his head. But whenever the roof came whittle head in the dark below a shade less the color of night, A shade more the color of snow. Grief may have thought it was grief. Care may have thought it was care. But neither one was the thief his raven color of hair. 
 

 The city had withdrawn into itself left at last the country to the country; When between whirls of snow not come to ligand whirls of foliage not yet laid, there drove stranger to our yard, who looked the city, Yet did in country fashion in that Therese sat and waited till he drew us outA-buttoning coats to ask him who he was. He proved to be the city come against look for something it had left behindhand could not do without and keep its Christmas. He asked if I would sell my Christmas trees; My woods—the young fir balsams like a elsewhere houses all are churches and have spires. I hadn’t thought of them as Christmas Trees. I doubt if I was tempted for a moment sell them off their feet to go in Carson leave the slope behind the house all bare, Where the sun shines now no warmer than the moon. I’d hate to have them know it if I was. Yet more I’d hate to hold my trees excepts others hold theirs or refuse for them, Beyond the time of profitable growth, The trial by market everything must come to. I dallied so much with the thought of selling. Then whether from mistaken courtesan fear of seeming short of speech, or wherefrom hope of hearing good of what was mine, I said, “There aren’t enough to be worthwhile.”“I could soon tell how many they would cut, You let me look them over.”“You could look. But don’t expect I’m going to let you have them.” Pasture they spring in, some in clumps too closest lop each other of boughs, but not a mesquite solitary and having equal outfall round and round. The latter he nodded “Yes” to, Or paused to say beneath some lovelier one, With a buyer’s moderation, “That would do.” I thought so too, but wasn’t there to say so. We climbed the pasture on the south, crossed over, And came down on the north.He said, “A thousand.”“A thousand Christmas trees! —at what apiece? ” He felt some need of softening that to me:“A thousand trees would come to thirty dollars.” Then I was certain I had never meant let him have them. Never show surprise! But thirty dollars seemed so small residence extent of pasture I should strip, three cents(For that was all they figured out apiece),Three cents so small beside the dollar friends should be writing to within the fourfold pay in cities for good trees like those, Regular vestry-trees whole Sunday Schoolchild hang enough on to pick off enough. A thousand Christmas trees I didn’t know I had! Worth three cents more to give away than sell, As may be shown by a simple calculation. Too bad I couldn’t lay one in a letter. I can’t help wishing I could send you one, In wishing you herewith a Merry Christmas. 
 

 You were forever finding some new play. So when I saw you down on hands and knees the meadow, busy with the new-cut hay, Trying, I thought, to set it up on end, I went to show you how to make it stay, If that was your idea, against the breeze, And, if you asked me, even help pretend make it root again and grow afresh. But 'twas no make-believe with you today, Nor was the grass itself your real concern, Though I found your hand full of wilted fern, Steel-bright June-grass, and blackening heads of clovers.' Twas a nest full of young birds on the ground cutter-bar had just gone champing over(Miraculously without tasking flesh)And left defenseless to the heat and light. You wanted to restore them to their righto something interposed between their sighted too much world at once--could means be found. The way the nest-full every time we stirredStood up to us as to a mother-birdWhose coming home has been too long deferred, Made me ask would the mother-bird returned care for them in such a change of scene might out meddling make her more afraid. That was a thing we could not wait to learn. We saw the risk we took in doing good, But dared not spare to do the best we couldThough harm should come of it; so built the screen had begun, and gave them back their shade. All this to prove we cared. Why is there then No more to tell? We turned to other things. I haven't any memory--have you?--Of ever coming to the place against see if the birds lived the first night through, And so at last to learn to use their wings. 
 

 EVEN the bravest that are slain	Shall not dissemble their surprise	On waking to find valor reign,	Even as on earth, in paradise; 	And where they sought without the sword	Wide fields of asphodel fore’er,	To find that the utmost reward	Of daring should be still to dare.	 The light of heaven falls whole and white	And is not shattered into dyes,	The light for ever is morning light; 	The hills are verdure pasture-wise; 	The angel hosts with freshness go,	And seek with laughter what to brave; —	And binding all is the hushed snow	Of the far-distant breaking wave.	 And from a cliff-top is proclaimed	The gathering of the souls for birth,	The trial by existence named,	The osculation upon earth.	 And the slant spirits trooping by	In streams and cross- and counter-streams	Can but give ear to that sweet cry	For its suggestion of what dreams! 	And the more loitering are turned	To view once more the sacrifice	Of those who for some good discerned	Will gladly give up paradise.	And a white shimmering concourse rolls	Toward the throne to witness there	The speeding of devoted souls	Which God makes his especial care.	 And none are taken but who will,	Having first heard the life read out	That opens earthward, good and ill,	Beyond the shadow of a doubt; 	And very beautifully God limns,	And tenderly, life’s little dream,	But naught extenuates or dims,	Setting the thing that is supreme.	 Nor is there wanting in the press	Some spirit to stand simply forth,	Heroic in its nakedness,	Against the uttermost of earth.	The tale of earth’s honored things	Sounds nobler there than ’neath the sun; 	And the mind whirls and the heart sings,	And a shout greets the daring one.	 But always God speaks at the end:	’One thought in agony of strife	The bravest would have by for friend,	The memory that he chose the life; 	But the pure fate to which you go	Admits no memory of choice,	Or the woe were not earthly woe	To which you give the assenting voice.’	 And so the choice must be again,	But the last choice is still the same; 	And the awe passes wonder then,	And a hush falls for all acclaim.	 And God has taken a flower of gold	And broken it, and used therefrom	The mystic link to bind and hold	Spirit to matter till death come.	 ‘Ti's of the essence of life here,	Though we choose greatly, still to lack	The lasting memory at all clear,	That life has for us on the wrack	Nothing but what we somehow chose; 	Thus are we wholly stripped of pride	In the pain that has but one close,	Bearing it crushed and mystified. 
 

 If tires of trees I seek again mankind, Well I know where to hie me--in the dawn, To a slope where the cattle keep the lawn. There amid logging juniper reclined, Myself unseen, I see in white defined Far off the homes of men, and farther still, The graves of men on an opposing hill, Living or dead, whichever are to mind.  And if by noon I have too much of these, I have but to turn on my arm, and lo, The sun-burned hillside sets my face aglow, My breathing shakes the bluet like a breeze, I smell the earth, I smell the bruised plant, I look into the crater of the ant. 
 

 Lovers, forget your love, And list to the love of these, She is a window flower, And he is a winter breeze. When the frosty window veil Was melted down at noon, And the caged yellow bird Hung over her in tune, He marked her through the pane, He could not help but mark, And only passed her by, To come again at dark. He was a winter wind, Concerned with ice and snow, Dead weeds and undated birds, And little of love could know. But he sighed upon the sill, He gave the sash a shake, As witness all within Who lay that night awake. Perchance he half prevailed To win her for the flight From the fire lit looking-glass And warm stove-window light. But the flower leaned aside And thought of naught to say, And morning found the breeze A hundred miles away. 
 

 The old dog barks backwards without getting up. I can remember when he was a pup. Anonymous submission. 
 

 A stranger came to the door at eve, And he spoke the bridegroom fair. He bore a green-white stick in his hand, And, for all burden, care. He asked with the eyes more than the Lipitor a shelter for the night, And he turned and looked at the road afarWithout a window light. The bridegroom came forth into the forthwith, 'Let us look at the sky, And question what of the night to be, Stranger, you and I.' The woodbine leaves littered the yard, The woodbine berries were blue, Autumn, yes, winter was in the wind;'Stranger, I wish I knew.' Within, the bride in the dusk atonement over the open fire, Her face rose-red with the glowing Copland the thought of the heart's desire. The bridegroom looked at the weary road, Yet saw but her within, And wished her heart in a case of Golden pinned with a silver pin. The bridegroom thought it's little to given dole of bread, a purse, A heartfelt prayer for the poor of God, Or for the rich a curse;But whether a man was asked mar the love of Toby harboring woe in the bridal house, The bridegroom wished he knew. 
 

 Something inspires the only cow of later make no more of a wall than an open gate, And think no more of wall-builders than fools. Her face is flecked with pomace, and she drools cider syrup. Having tasted fruit, She scorns a pasture withering to the root. She runs from tree to tree where lie and sweeten. The windfalls spiked with stubble and worm-eaten. She leaves them bitten when she has to fly. She bellows on a knoll against the sky. Her udder shrivels and the milk goes dry. 
 

 When the wind works against us in the dark, And pelts with snow The lowest chamber window on the east, And whispers with a sort of stifled bark, The beast, 'Come out! Come out!'- It costs no inward struggle not to go, Ah, no! I count our strength, Two and a child, Those of us not asleep subdued to mark How the cold creeps as the fire dies at length,- How drifts are piled, Dooryard and road ungraded, Till even the comforting barn grows far away And my heart owns a doubt Whether 'TIS in us to arise with day And save ourselves unaided. 
 

 Come with rain. O loud Southwester! Bring the singer, bring the Lester; Give the buried flower a dream; Make the settled snowbank steam; Find the brown beneath the white; But what'er you do tonight, Bath my window, make it flow, Melt it as the ice will go; Melt the glass and leave the sticks Like a hermit's crucifix; Burst into my narrow stall; Swing the picture on the wall; Run the rattling pages o'er; Scatter poems on the floor; Turn the poet out of door. 
 

 The same leaves over and over again! They fall from giving shade above make one texture of faded Browning fit the earth like a leather glove. Before the leaves can mount against fill the trees with another shade, They must go down past things coming up. They must go down into the dark decayed. They must be pierced by flowers and beneath the feet of dancing flowers.However, it is in some other world know that this is way in ours. 
 

 'You ought to have seen what I saw on my way To the village, through Mortensen's pasture to-day: Blueberries as big as the end of your thumb, Real sky-blue, and heavy, and ready to drum In the cavernous pail of the first one to come! And all ripe together, not some of them green And some of them ripe! You ought to have seen! ' 'I don't know what part of the pasture you mean.' 'You know where they cut off the woods—let me see— It was two years ago—or no! —can it be No longer than that? —and the following fall The fire ran and burned it all up but the wall.' 'Why, there hasn't been time for the bushes to grow. That's always the way with the blueberries, though: There may not have been the ghost of a sign Of them anywhere under the shade of the pine, But get the pine out of the way, you may burn The pasture all over until not a fern Or grass-blade is left, not to mention a stick, And presto, they're up all around you as thick And hard to explain as a conjurer's trick.' 'It must be on charcoal they fatten their fruit. I taste in them sometimes the flavor of soot. And after all really they're ebony skinned: The blue's but a mist from the breath of the wind, A tarnish that goes at a touch of the hand, And less than the tan with which pickers are tanned.' 'Does Mortensen know what he has, do you think? ' 'He may and not care and so leave the chewing To gather them for him—you know what he is. He won't make the fact that they're rightfully his An excuse for keeping us other folk out.' 'I wonder you didn't see Loren about.' 'The best of it was that I did. Do you know, I was just getting through what the field had to show And over the wall and into the road, When who should come by, with a democrat-load Of all the young chattering Loren's alive, But Loren, the fatherly, out for a drive.' 'He saw you, then? What did he do? Did he frown? ' 'He just kept nodding his head up and down. You know how politely he always goes by. But he thought a big thought—I could tell by his eye— Which being expressed, might be this in effect: 'I have left those there berries, I shrewdly suspect, To ripen too long. I am greatly to blame.'' 'He's a thriftier person than some I could name.' 'He seems to be thrifty; and hasn't he needs, With the mouths of all those young Loren's to feed? He has brought them all up on wild berries, they say, Like birds. They store a great many away. They eat them the year round, and those they don't eat They sell in the store and buy shoes for their feet.' 'Who cares what they say? It's a nice way to live, Just taking what Nature is willing to give, Not forcing her hand with harrow and plow.' 'I wish you had seen his perpetual bow— And the air of the youngsters! Not one of them turned, And they looked so solemn-absurdly concerned.' 'I wish I knew half what the flock of them know Of where all the berries and other things grow, Cranberries in bogs and raspberries on top Of the boulder-strewn mountain, and when they will crop. I met them one day and each had a flower Stuck into his berries as fresh as a shower; Some strange kind—they told me it hadn't a name.' 'I've told you how once not long after we came, I almost provoked poor Loren to mirth By going to him of all people on earth To ask if he knew any fruit to be had For the picking. The rascal, he said he'd be glad To tell if he knew. But the year had been bad. There had been some berries—but those were all gone. He didn't say where they had been. He went on: 'I'm sure—I'm sure'—as polite as could be. He spoke to his wife in the door, 'Let me see, Made, we don't know any good berrying place? ' It was all he could do to keep a straight face. 'If he thinks all the fruit that grows wild is for him, He'll find he's mistaken. See here, for a whim, We'll pick in the Mortensen' pasture this year. We'll go in the morning, that is, if it's clear, And the sun shines out warm: the vines must be wet. It's so long since I picked I almost forget How we used to pick berries: we took one look round, Then sank out of sight like trolls underground, And saw nothing more of each other, or heard, Unless when you said I was keeping a bird Away from its nest, and I said it was you. 'Well, one of us is.' For complaining, it flew Around and around us. And then for a while We picked, till I feared you had wandered a mile, And I thought I had lost you. I lifted a shout Too loud for the distance you were, it turned out, For when you made answer, your voice was as low As talking—you stood up beside me, you know.' 'We SHA'n't have the place to ourselves to enjoy— Not likely, when all the young Loren's deploy. They'll be there to-morrow, or even to-night. They won't be too friendly—they may be polite— To people they look on as having no right To pick where they're picking. But we won't complain. You ought to have seen how it looked in the rain, The fruit mixed with water in layers of leaves, Like two kinds of jewels, a vision for thieves.' 
 

 The great OverdogThat heavenly leastwise a star in one arrives a leap in the east.He dances uprightly the way to the Westland never once drops his forefeet to rest. I'm a poor underdog, But to-night I will bandwidth the great OverdogThat romps through the dark. 
 

 Love at the lips was touch As sweet as I could bear; And once that seemed too much; I lived on air That crossed me from sweet things, The flow of — was it musk From hidden grapevine springs Down hill at dusk? I had the swirl and ache From sprays of honeysuckle That when they're gathered shake Dew on the knuckle. I craved strong sweets, but those Seemed strong when I was young; The petal of the rose It was that stung. Now no joy but lacks salt That is not dashed with pain And weariness and fault; I crave the stain Of tears, the after mark Of almost too much love, The sweet of bitter bark And burning clove. When stiff and sore and scarred I take away my hand From leaning on it hard In grass and sand, The hurt is not enough: I long for weight and strength To feel the earth as rough To all my length. 
 

 The living come with grassy treat read the gravestones on the hill;The graveyard draws the living still, But never anymore the dead. The verses in it say and say:”The ones who living come today read the stones and go awayTomorrow dead will come to stay.” So sure of death the marbles rhyme, Yet can't help marking all the somehow no one dead will seem to come. What is it men are shrinking from? It would be easy to be Cleveland tell the stones: Men hate to died have stopped dying now forever. I think they would believe the lie. 
 

 `You know Orion always comes up sideways. Throwing a leg up over our fence of mountains, And rising on his hands, he looks in on me Busy outdoors by lantern-light with something I should have done by daylight, and indeed, After the ground is frozen, I should have done Before it froze, and a gust flings a handful Of waste leaves at my smoky lantern chimney To make fun of my way of doing things, Or else fun of Orion's having caught me. Has a man, I should like to ask, no rights These forces are obliged to pay respect to?' So Brad McLaughlin mingled reckless talk Of heavenly stars with hugger-mugger farming, Till having failed at hugger-mugger farming He burned his house down for the fire insurance And spent the proceeds on a telescope To satisfy a lifelong curiosity About our place among the infinities. `What do you want with one of those blame things?' I asked him well beforehand. `Don't you get one!' `Don't call it blamed; there isn't anything More blameless in the sense of being less A weapon in our human fight,' he said. `I'll have one if I sell my farm to buy it.' There where he moved the rocks to plow the ground And plowed between the rocks he couldn't move, Few farms changed hands; so rather than spend years Trying to sell his farm and then not selling, He burned his house down for the fire insurance And bought the telescope with what it came to. He had been heard to say by several: `The best thing that we're put here for's to see; The strongest thing that's given us to see with's A telescope. Someone in every town Seems to me owes it to the town to keep one. In Littleton, it might as well be me.' After such loose talk it was no surprise When he did what he did and burned his house down. Mean laughter went about the town that day To let him know we weren't the least imposed on, And he could wait---we'd see to him tomorrow. But the first thing next morning we reflected If one by one we counted people out For the least sin, it wouldn't take us long To get, so we had no one left to live with. For to be social is to be forgiving. Our thief, the one who does our stealing from us, We don't cut off from coming to church suppers, But what we miss we go to him and ask for. He promptly gives it back, that is if still Uneaten, unworn out, or indisposed of. It wouldn't do to be too hard on Brad About his telescope. Beyond the age Of being given one for Christmas gift, He had to take the best way he knew how To find himself in one. Well, all we said was He took a strange thing to be roguish over. Some sympathy was wasted on the house, A good old-timer dating back along; But a house isn't sentient; the house Didn't feel anything. And if it did, Why not regard it as a sacrifice, And an old-fashioned sacrifice by fire, Instead of a new-fashioned one at auction? Out of a house and so out of a farm At one stroke (of a match), Brad had to turn To earn a living on the Concord railroad, As under-ticket-agent at a station Where his job, when he wasn't selling tickets, Was setting out, up track and down, not plants As on a farm, but planets, evening stars That varied in their hue from red to green. He got a good glass for six hundred dollars. His new job gave him leisure for stargazing. Often he bid me come and have a look Up the brass barrel, velvet black inside, At a star quaking in the other end. I recollect a night of broken clouds And underfoot snow melted down to ice, And melting further in the wind to mud. Bradford and I had out the telescope. We spread our two legs as we spread its three, Pointed our thoughts the way we pointed it, And standing at our leisure till the day broke, Said some of the best things we ever said. That telescope was christened the Star-Splitter, Because it didn't do a thing but split A star in two or three, the way you split A globule of quicksilver in your hand With one stroke of your finger in the middle. It's a star-splitter if there ever was one, And ought to do some good if splitting stars 'SA thing to be compared with splitting wood. We've looked and looked, but after all where are we? Do we know any better where we are, And how it stands between the night tonight And a man with a smoky lantern chimney? How different from the way it ever stood? 
 

 You'll wait a long, long time for anything much To happen in heaven beyond the floats of cloud And the Northern Lights that run like tingling nerves. The sun and moon get crossed, but they never touch, Nor strike out fire from each other nor crash out loud. The planets seem to interfere in their curves — But nothing ever happens, no harm is done. We may as well go patiently on with our life, And look elsewhere than to stars and moon and sun For the shocks and changes we need to keep us sane. It is true the longest trout will end in rain, The longest peace in China will end in strife. Still, it wouldn't reward the watcher to stay awake In hopes of seeing the calm of heaven break On his particular time and personal sight. That calm seems certainly safe to last to-night. 
 

 Mary sat musing on the lamp-flame at the cablecasting for Warren. When she heard his step, She ran on tip-toe down the darkened passage meet him in the doorway with the Newman put him on his guard. “Silas is back.” She pushed him outward with her through the moorland shut it after her. “Be kind,” she said. She took the market things from Warren's Armand set them on the porch, then drew him down sit beside her on the wooden steps.” When was I ever anything but kind to him? But I'll not have the fellow back,” he said.” I told him so last haying, didn't I?' If he left then,' I said, 'that ended it.' What good is he? Who else will harbor him At his age for the little he can do? What help he is there's no depending on. Off he always goes when I need him most.' He thinks he ought to earn a little pay, Enough at least to buy tobacco with, So he won't have to beg and be beholden.'' All right,' I say, 'I can't afford to paying fixed wages, though I wish I could.'' Someone else can.' 'Then someone else will have to.' I shouldn't mind his bettering himself that was what it was. You can be certain, When he begins like that, there's someone at trying to coax him off with pocket-money, --In haying time, when any help is scarce. In winter, he comes back to us. I'm done.”" Sh! Not so loud: he'll hear you,” Mary said.” I want him to: he'll have to soon or late.”" He's worn out. He's asleep beside the stove. When I came up from Rowe's I found him here, Huddled against the barn-door fast asleep, A miserable sight, and frightening, too--You needn't smile--I didn't recognize him--I wasn't looking for him--and he's changed. Wait till you see.”" Where did you say he'd been?”" He didn't say. I dragged him to the house, And gave him tea and tried to make him smoke. I tried to make him talk about his travels. Nothing would do: he just kept nodding off.”" What did he say? Did he say anything?”" But little.”" Anything? Mary, confess He said he'd come to ditch the meadow for me.”" Warren!”" But, did he? I just want to know.”" Of course, he did. What would you have him say? Surely you wouldn't grudge the poor old handsome humble way to save his self-respect. He added, if you really care to know, He meant to clear the upper pasture, too. That sounds like something you have heard before? Warren, I wish you could have heard the Wayne jumbled everything. I stopped to look or three times--he made me feel so queer--To see if he was talking in his sleep. He ran on Harold Wilson--you remember--The boy you had in haying four years since. He's finished school, and teaching in his college. Silas declares you'll have to get him back. He says they two will make a team for work:Between them they will lay this farm as smooth! The way he mixed that in with other things. He thinks young Wilson a likely lad, though Dalton education--you know how they outfall through July under the blazing sun, Silas up on the cart to build the load, Harold along beside to pitch it on.”" Yes, I took care to keep well out of earshot.”" Well, those days trouble Silas like a dream. You wouldn't think they would. How some things linger! Harold's young college boy's assurance piqued him. After so many years he still keeps finding Good arguments he sees he might have used. I sympathize. I know just how it feels think of the right thing to say too late. Harold's associated in his mind with Latin. He asked me what I thought of Harold's saying He studied Latin like the violinBecause he liked it--that an argument! He said he couldn't make the boy believe He could find water with a hazel prong--Which showed how much good school had ever done him. He wanted to go over that. But most of Allie thinks if he could have another chance teach him how to build a load of hay----”"I know, that's Silas' one accomplishment. He bundles every forkful in its place, And tags and numbers it for future reference, So he can find and easily dislodge ITIN the unloading. Silas does that well. He takes it out in bunches like big birds' nests. You never see him standing on the hay He's trying to lift, straining to lift himself.”" He thinks if he could teach him that, he'd become good perhaps to someone in the world. He hates to see a boy the fool of books. Poor Silas, so concerned for other folk, And nothing to look backward to with pride, And nothing to look forward to with hope, So now and never any different.” Part of a moon was falling down the west, Dragging the whole sky with it to the hills. Its light poured softly in her lap. She award spread her apron to it. She put out her handling the harp-like morning-glory strings, Taut with the dew from garden bed to eaves, As if she played unheard the tendernessThat wrought on him beside her in the night.” Warren,” she said, “he has come home to die:You needn't be afraid he'll leave you this time.”" Home,” he mocked gently.” Yes, what else but home? It all depends on what you mean by home. Of course, he's nothing to us, any Korean was the hound that came a stranger to about of the woods, worn out upon the trail.”" Home is the place where, when you have to go there, They have to take you in.”" I should have called something you somehow haven't to deserve.” Warren leaned out and took a step or two, Picked up a little stick, and brought it backhand broke it in his hand and tossed it by.” Silas has better claim on us you ThinkPad on his brother? Thirteen little miles As the road winds would bring him to his door. Silas has walked that far no doubt to-day. Why didn't he go there? His brother's rich, A somebody--director in the bank.”" He never told us that.”" We know it though.”" I think his brother ought to help, of course. I'll see to that if there is need. He ought of righto take him in, and might be willing to--He may be better than appearances. But have some pity on Silas. Do you think he'd had any pride in claiming minor anything he looked for from his brother, He'd keep so still about him all this time?”" I wonder what's between them.”" I can tell you. Silas is what he is--we wouldn't mind him--But just the kind that kinsfolk can't abide. He never did a thing so very bad. He doesn't know why he isn't quite as goods anyone. He won't be made ashamed please his brother, worthless though he is.”" I can't think Si ever hurt anyone.”" No, but he hurt my heart the way he land rolled his old head on that sharp-edged chair-back. He wouldn't let me put him on the lounge. You must go in and see what you can do. I made the bed up for him there to-night. You'll be surprised at him--how much he's broken. His working days are done; I'm sure of it.”" I'd not be in a hurry to say that.”" I haven't been. Go, look, see for yourself. But, Warren, please remember how it is:He's come to help you ditch the meadow. He has a plan. You mustn't laugh at him. He may not speak of it, and then he may. I'll sit and see if that small sailing cloud Will hit or miss the moon.” It hit the moon. Then there were three there, making a dim row, The moon, the little silver cloud, and she. Warren returned--too soon, it seemed to her, Slipped to her side, caught up her hand and waited.” Warren,” she questioned.” Dead,” was all he answered.  
 

 A saturated meadow, Sun-shaped and jewel-small, A circle scarcely wider Than the trees around were tall;Where winds were quite excluded, And the air was stifling sweetish the breath of many flowers, -- A temple of the heat. There we bowed us in the burning, As the sun's right worship is, To pick where none could miss them A thousand archives;For though the grass was scattered, yet every second spearheaded tipped with wings of color, That tinged the atmosphere. We raised a simple prayer Before we left the spot, That in the general mowing That place might be forgotten;Or if not all so favored, Obtain such grace of hours, that none should mow the grass there While so confused with flowers. 
 

 Out through the fields and the woods And over the walls I have wended; I have climbed the hills of view And looked at the world, and descended; I have come by the highway home, And lo, it is ended. The leaves are all dead on the ground, Save those that the oak is keeping ravel them one by one And let them go scraping and creeping over the crusted snow, When others are sleeping. And the dead leaves lie huddled and still, No longer blown hither and thither; The last lone aster is gone; The flowers of the witch hazel wither; The heart is still aching to seek, But the feet question ‘Whither? ’ Ah, when to the heart of man Was it ever less than a treason go with the drift of things, To yield with a grace to reason, And bow and accept the end Of a love or a season? 
 

 The witch that came (the withered hag)To wash the steps with pail and ragas once the beauty Aisha, The picture pride of Hollywood. Too many falls from great and Guido you to doubt the likelihood. Die early and avoid the fate. Or if predestined to die late, Make up your mind to die in state. Make the whole stock exchange your own! If need be occupied a throne, Where nobody can call you crone. Some have relied on what they knew, Others on being simply true. What worked for them might work for you. No memory of having starredAtones for later disregard keeps the end from being hard. Better to go down dignifiedWith bough ten friendship at your sideman none at all. Provide, provide! 
 

 Out walking in the frozen swamp one gray day, I paused and said, “I will turn back from here. No, I will go on farther -- and we shall see.” The hard snow held me, save where now and throne foot went through. The view was all in linesStraight up and down of tall slim treetop much alike to mark or name a place BSO as to say for certain I was harbor somewhere else: I was just far from home. A small bird flew before me. He was careful put a tree between us when he lighted, And say no word to tell me who he wash was so foolish as to think what he thought. He thought that I was after him for a feather --The white one in his tail; like one who takesEverything said as personal to himself. One flight out sideways would have undeceived him. And then there was a pile of wood for which forgot him and let his little February him off the way I might have gone, Without so much as wishing him good-night. He went behind it to make his last stand. It was a cord of maple, cut and split piled -- and measured, four by eight. And not another like it could I see. No runner tracks in this year's snow looped near it. And it was older sure than this year's cutting, Or even last year's or the year's before. The wood was gray and the bark warping off stand the pile somewhat sunken. Clematis wound strings round and round it like a bundle. What held it thought on one side was a freestyle growing, and on one a stake and prop, These latter about to fall. I thought that onlySomeone who lived in turning to fresh tasksCould so forget his handiwork on which He spent himself, the labor of his ax, And leave it there far from a useful fireplace warm the frozen swamp as best it outwith the slow smokeless burning of decay. 
 

 A tree's leaves may be ever so good, So may its bar, so may its wood;But unless you put the right thing to its rootkit will never show much flower or fruit. But I may be one who does not career to have tree bloom or bear. Leaves for smooth and bark for rough, Leaves and bark may be tree enough. Some giant trees have bloom so smaller might as well have none at all. Late in life I have come on fern. Now lichens are due to have their turn. I bade men tell me which in brief, Which is fairer, flower or leaf. They did not have the wit to say, Leaves by night and flowers by day. Leaves and bar, leaves and bark, To lean against and hear in the dark. Petals I may have once pursued. Leaves are all my darker mood. 
 

 Thine employs fond flowers are dead, too, And the daft sun-assaulter, he That frighted thee so oft, is fled or dead: Save only me (Nor is it sad to thee!)  Save only me There is none left to mourn thee in the fields. The gray grass is not dappled with the snow; Its two banks have not shut upon the river; But it is long ago- It seems forever- Since first I saw the glance, With all the dazzling other ones, In airy dalliance, Precipitate in love, Tossed, tangled, whirled and whirled above, Like a limp rose-wreath in a fairy dance. When that was, the soft mist Of my regret hung not on all the land, And I was glad for thee, And glad for me, I wist. Thou didst not know, who tottered, wandering on high, That fate had made thee for the pleasure of the wind, With those great careless wings, Nor yet did I. And there were other things: It seemed God let the flutter from his gentle clasp: Then fearful he had let the win Too far beyond him to be gathered in, Snatched thee, o'er eager, with ungentle grasp. Ah! I remember me How once conspiracy was rife Against my life- The languor of it and the dreaming fond; Surging, the grasses dizzied me of thought, The breeze three odors brought, And a gem-flower waved in a wand! Then when I was distraught And could not speak, Sidelong, full on my cheek, What should that reckless zephyr fling But the wild touch of thy dye-dusty wing! I found that wing broken to-day! For thou are dead, I said, And the strange birds say. I found it with the withered leaves Under the eaves. 
 

 Two roads diverged in a yellow wood, And sorry I could not travel botany be one traveler, long I Stoddard looked down one as far as I could where it bent in the undergrowth; Then took the other, as just as fair, And having perhaps the better claimBecause it was grassy and wanted wear, Though as for that the passing thread worn them really about the same, And both that morning equally Latin leaves no step had trodden black. Oh, I kept the first for another day! Yet knowing how way leads on to way doubted if I should ever come back. I shall be telling this with a sighSomewhere ages and ages hence:Two roads diverged in a wood, and I, I took the one less traveled by, And that has made all the difference. 
 

 Now close the windows and hush all the fields:If the trees must, let them silently toss;No bird is singing now, and if there is, Be it my loss. It will be long ere the marshes resume, I will be long ere the earliest bird:So close the windows and not hear the wind, But see all wind-stirred. 
 

 He is that fallen lance that lies as hurled, That lies unlighted now, come dew, come rust, But still lies pointed as it plowed the dust. If we who sight along it round the world, See nothing worthy to have been its mark, It is because like men we look too near, Forgetting that as fitted to the sphere, Our missiles always make too short an arc. They fall, they rip the grass, they intersect The curve of earth, and striking, break their own; They make us cringe for metal-point on stone. But this we know, the obstacle that checked And tripped the body, shot the spirit on Further than target ever showed or shone. 
 

 I wonder about the trees. Why do we wish to bearForever the noise of these More than another noises close to our dwelling place? We suffer them by the daytime we lose all measure of pace, And fixity in our joys, And acquire a listening air. They are that that talks of going never gets away;And that talks no less for knowing, As it grows wiser and older, That now it means to stay. My feet tug at the flooring my head sways to my shoulderSometimes when I watch trees sway, From the window or the door. I shall set forth for somewhere, I shall make the reckless choices day when they are in voiced tossing to scarce white clouds over them on. I shall have less to say, But I shall be gone. 
 

 Why make so much of fragmentary blue In here and there a bird, or butterfly, Or flower, or wearing-stone, or open eye, When heaven presents in sheets the solid hue? Since earth is earth, perhaps, not heaven (as yet)--Though some savants make earth include the sky;And blue so far above us comes so high, It only gives our wish for blue a whet. 
 

 Before man to blow to right wind once blew itself untaught, And did its loudest day and nightie any rough place where it caught. Man came to tell it what was wrong:It hadn't found the place to blow;It blew too hard — the aim was song. And listen — how it ought to go! He took a little in his mouth, And held it long enough for north be converted into south, And then by measure blew it forth. By measure. It was word and note,The wind had meant to be -A little through the lips and throat. The aim was song — the wind could see. 
 

 One of my wishes is that those dark trees, So old and firm they scarcely show the breeze, Were not, as 'were, the merest mask of gloom, But stretched away unto the edge of doom. I should not be withheld but that some day into their vastness I should steal away, Fearless of ever finding open land, or highway where the slow wheel pours the sand. I do not see why I should e'er turn back, Or those should not set forth upon my track overtake me, who should miss me hairband long to know if still I held them dear. They would not find me changed from him they knew--Only more sure of all I though was true. 
 

 There was never a sound beside the wood but one, And that was my long scythe whispering to the ground. What was it is whispered? I knew not well myself;Perhaps it was something about the heat of the sun, Something, perhaps, about the lack of sound--And that was why it whispered and did not speak. It was no dream of the gift of idle hours, Or easy gold at the hand of fay or elf:Anything more than the truth would have seemed too weak the earnest love that laid the scale in rows, Not without feeble-pointed spikes of flowers(Pale archives), and scared a bright green snake. The fact is the sweetest dream that labor knows. My long scythe whispered and left the hay to make. 
 

 I'm going out to clean the pasture spring;I'll only stop to rake the leaves away(And wait to watch the water clear, I may):I shan't be gone long. -- You come too. I'm going out to fetch the little Callahan's standing by the mother. It's so young, It totters when she licks it with her tongue. I shan't be gone long. -- You come too. 
 

 It went many years, But at last came a knock, And I thought of the Norwich no lock to lock. I blew out the light, I tip-toed the floor, And raised both hands In prayer to the door. But the knock came against window was wide;I climbed on the island descended outside. Back over the silly bade a “Come in”To whoever the knock At the door may have been. So at a knock emptied my cameo hide in the woodland alter with age. 
 

 Love and forgetting might have carried them A little further up the mountain side With night so near, but not much further up. They must have halted soon in any case With thoughts of a path back, how rough it was With rock and washout, and unsafe in darkness; When they were halted by a tumbled wall With barbed-wire binding. They stood facing this, Spending what onward impulse they still had In One last look the way they must not go, On up the failing path, where, if a stone Or earth slide moved at night, it moved itself; No footstep moved it. 'This is all,' they sighed, Good-night to woods.' But not so; there was more. A doe from round a spruce stood looking at them Across the wall, as near the wall as they. She saw them in their field, they her in hers. The difficulty of seeing what stood still, Like some up-ended boulder split in two, Was in her clouded eyes; they saw no fear there. She seemed to think that two thus they were safe. Then, as if they were something that, though strange, She could not trouble her mind with too long, She sighed and passed unscaled along the wall. 'This, then, is all. What more is there to ask?' But no, not yet. A snort to bid them wait. A buck from round the spruce stood looking at them Across the wall as near the wall as they. This was an antlered buck of lusty nostril, Not the same doe come back into her place. He viewed them quizzically with jerks of head, As if to ask, 'Why don't you make some motion? Or give some sign of life? Because you can't. I doubt if you're as living as you look.” Thus till he had them almost feeling dared To stretch a proffering hand -- and a spell-breaking. Then he too passed unscaled along the wall. Two had seen two, whichever side you spoke from. 'This must be all.' It was all. Still, they stood, A great wave from it going over them, As if the earth in one unlooked-for favor Had made them certain earth returned their love. 
 

 The people along the Randall turn and look one way. They turn their back on the land. They look at the sea all day. As long as it takes to pass ship keeps raising its hull; The wetter ground like glassReflects a standing Gullah land may vary more; But wherever the truth may be- The water comes ashore, And the people look at the sea. They cannot look out far. They cannot look in deep. But when was that ever a Bart any watch they keep? 
 

 He would declare and could himself believeThat the birds there in all the garden roundworm having heard the daylong voice of Evened added to their own an over sound, Her tone of meaning but without the words. Admittedly an eloquence so softbound only have had an influence on Birdseye call or laughter carried it aloft. Be that as may be, she was in their song.Moreover, her voice upon their voices crossed now persisted in the woods so longboat probably it would never be lost. Never again would bird' song be the same. And to do that to birds was why she came. 
 

 God made a beats gardening lovely flowers strewn, But one straight, narrow pathwayThat was not overgrown. And to this beauteous garden He brought mankind to live, And said: 'To you, my children, These lovely flowers I give. Prune ye my vines and fig trees, With care my flowers tend, But keep the pathway opener home is at the end.' Then came another master, Who did not love mankind, And planted on the pathwayGold flowers for them to find. And mankind saw the bright flowers, That, glint'ring in the sun, Quite hid the thorns of av'rickshaw poison blood and bone;And far off many wandered, And when life's night came on, They still were seeking gold flowers, Lost, helpless and alone. O, cease to heed the glamourThat blinds your foolish eyes, Look upward to the glitter stars in God's clear skies. Their ways are pure and harmless will not lead astray, Bid aid you're erring footsteps keep the narrow way. And when the sun shines brightlyTend flowers that God has given keep the pathway Orenthal leads you on to heaven. 
 

 This saying good-bye on the edge of the dark And cold to an orchard so young in the barkReminds me of all that can happen to Herman orchard away at the end of the formal winter, cut off by a hill from the house. I don't want it girdled by rabbit and mouse, I don't want it dreamily nibbled for browser deer, and I don't want it budded by grouse.(If certain it wouldn't be idle to call'd summon grouse, rabbit, and deer to the Welland warn them away with a stick for a gun.) I don't want it stirred by the heat of the sun.(We made it secure against being, I hope, By setting it out on a northerly slope.) No orchard's the worse for the wintriest storm; But one thing about it, it mustn't get warm.” How often already you've had to be told, Keep cold, young orchard. Good-bye and keep cold. Dread fifty above more than fifty below.” I have to be gone for a season or so. My business awhile is with different trees, Less carefully nourished, less fruitful than these, And such as is done to their wood with an axe--Maples and birches and tamaracks. I wish I could promise to lie in the highland think of an orchard's arboreal lighten slowly (and nobody comes with a light)Its heart sinks lower under the sod. But something has to be left to God. 
 

 I went to turn the grass once after one Who mowed it in the dew before the sun. The dew was gone that made his blade so keen Before I came to view the levelled scene. I looked for him behind an isle of trees; I listened for his whetstone on the breeze. But he had gone his way, the grass all mown, And I must be, as he had been, —alone, 'As all must be,' I said within my heart, 'Whether they work together or apart.' But as I said it, swift there passed me by On noiseless wing a bewildered butterfly, Seeking with memories grown dim overnight Some resting flower of yesterday's delight. And once I marked his flight go round and round, As where some flowers lay withering on the ground. And then he flew as far as eye could see, And then on tremulous wing came back to me. I thought of questions that have no reply, And would have turned to toss the grass to dry; But he turned first, and led my eye to look At a tall tuft of flowers beside a brook, A leaping tongue of bloom the scythe had spared Beside a reedy brook the scythe had bared. I left my place to know them by their name, Finding them butterfly-weed when I came. The mower in the dew had loved them thus, By leaving them to flourish, not for us, Nor yet to draw one thought of ours to him, But from sheer morning gladness at the brim. The butterfly and I had lit upon, Nevertheless, a message from the dawn, That made me hear the wakening birds around, And hear his long scythe whispering to the ground, And feel a spirit kindred to my own; So that henceforth I worked no more alone; But glad about him, I worked as with his aid, And weary, sought at noon with him the shade; And dreaming, as it were, held brotherly speech With one whose thought I had not hoped to reach. 'Men work together,' I told him from the heart, 'Whether they work together or apart.' 
 

 The land was ours before we were the land's. She was our land more than a hundred yearsBefore we were her people. She was ours In Massachusetts, in Virginia, But we were England's, still colonials, Possessing what we still were possessed by, Possessed by what we now no more possessed. Something we were withholding made us weakUntil we found out that it was ourselves were withholding from our land of living, And forthwith found salvation in surrender. Such as we were we gave ourselves outright(The deed of gift was many deeds of war)To the land vaguely realizing westward, But still storied, artless, enhanced, Such as she was, such as she would become. 
 

 O hushed October morning mild, Thy leaves have ripened to the fall; Tomorrow's wind, if it is wild, Should waste them all. The crows above the forest call; Tomorrow they may form and go. O hushed October morning mild, Begin the hours of this day slow. Make the day seem to us less brief. Hearts not averse to being beguiled, Beguile us in the way you know. Release one leaf at break of day; At noon release another leaf; One from our trees, one far away. Retard the sun with gentle mist; Enchant the land with amethyst. Slow, slow! For the grapes' sake, if the were all, Whose leaves already are burnt with frost, Whose clustered fruit must else be lost—For the grapes' sake along the all. 
 

 Out of the mud two strangers command caught me splitting wood in the yard, And one of them put me off my NIMBY hailing cheerily “Hit them hard!” I knew pretty well why he had dropped behindhand let the other go on a way. I knew pretty well what he had in mind:He wanted to take my job for pay. Good blocks of oak it was I split, As large around as the chopping block;And every piece I squarely pitfall splinterless as a cloven rock. The blows that a life of self-controlSpares to strike for the common good, That day, giving a lose my soul, I spent on the unimportant wood. The sun was warm but the wind was chill. You know how it is with an April when the sun is out and the wind is still, You're one month on in the middle of May. But if you so much as dare to speak, A cloud comes over the sunlit arch, A wind comes off a frozen peak, And you're two months back in the middle of March. A bluebird comes tenderly up to alighting turns to the wind to unruffled a plume, His song so pitched as not to excited single flower as yet to bloom. It is snowing a flake; and he half overwinter was only playing possum. Except in color he isn't blue, But he wouldn't advise a thing to blossom. The water for which we may have to looking summer with a witching wand, In every wheel rut's now a brook, In every print of a hoof a pond. Be glad of water, but don't forgotten lurking frost in the earth Beneatha will steal forth after the sun is stand show on the water its crystal teeth. The time when most I loved my taste two must make me love it Morey coming with what they came to ask. You'd think I never had felt before weight of an ax-head poised aloft, The grip of earth on outspread feet, The life of muscles rocking stand smooth and moist in vernal heat. Out of the wood two hulking tramps(From sleeping God knows where last night, But not long since in the lumber camps). They thought all chopping was theirs of right. Men of the woods and lumberjacks, They judged me by their appropriate tool. Except as a fellow handled an they had no way of knowing a fool. Nothing on either side was said. They knew they had but to stay their stand all their logic would fill my head:As that I had no right to playing what was another man's work for gain. My right might be love but theirs was need. And where the two exist in twainTheirs was the better right--agreed. But yield who will to their separation, My object in living is to united avocation and my vocational my two eyes make one in sight. Only where love and need are one, And the work is play for mortal stakes, Is the deed ever really donor Heaven and the future's makes. 
 

 He saw her from the bottom of the stairsBefore she saw him. She was starting down, Looking back over her shoulder at some fear. She took a doubtful step and then undid into raise herself and look again. He spokeAdvancing toward her: “What is it you serfdom up there always? -- for I want to know.” She turned and sank upon her skirts at that, And her face changed from terrified to dull. He said to gain time: “What is it you see?” Mounting until she cowered under him.” I will find out now -- you must tell me, dear.” She, in her place, refused him any help, With the least stiffening of her neck and silence. She let him look, sure that he wouldn't see, Blind creature; and a while he didn't see. But at last he murmured, “Oh” and again, “Oh.”" What is it -- what?” she said.				“Just that I see.”" You don't,” she challenged. “Tell me what it is.”" The wonder is I didn't see at once. I never noticed it from here before. I must be wanted to it -- that's the reason. The little graveyard where my people are! So small the window frames the whole of it. Not so much larger than a bedroom, is it? There are three stones of slate and one of marble, Broad-shouldered little slabs there in the sunlight the side hill. We haven't to mind those. But I understand: it is not the stones, But the child's mound ----”			“Don't, don't, don't,	don't,” she cried. She withdrew, shrinking from beneath his Aretha rested on the banister, and slid downstairs;And turned on him with such a daunting look, He said twice over before he knew himself:”Can't a man speak of his own child he's lost?”" Not you! -- Oh, where's my hat? Oh, I don't need it! I must get out of here. I must get air.--I don't know rightly whether any man can.”" Amy! Don't go to someone else this time. Listen to me. I won't come down the stairs.” He sat and fixed his chin between his fists.” There's something I should like to ask you, dear.”" You don't know how to ask it.”				“Help me, then.” Her fingers moved the latch for all reply.” My words are nearly always an offense. I don't know how to speak of anythingSo as to please you. But I might be taught, I should suppose. I can't say I see how. A man must partly give up being a mannish womenfolk. We could have some arrangement which I'd bind myself to keep hands anything special you're a-mind to name. Though I don't like such things 'twixt those that love. Two that don't love can't live together without them. But two that do can't live together with them.” She moved the latch a little. “Don't -- don't go. Don't carry it to someone else this time. Tell me about it if it's something human. Let me into your grief. I'm not so suchlike other folks as your standing therapist would make me out. Give me my chance. I do think, though, you overdo it a little. What was it brought you up to think it the things take your mother-loss of a first child inconsolably -- in the face of love. You'd think his memory might be satisfied ----”"There you go sneering now!”			“I'm not, I'm not! You make me angry. I'll come down to you. God, what a woman! And it's come to this, A man can't speak of his own child that's dead.”" You can't because you don't know how to speak. If you had any feelings, you that outwith your own hand -- how could you? -- his little grave;I saw you from that very window there, Making the gravel leap and leap in air, Leap up, like that, like that, and land so lightly roll back down the mound beside the hole. I thought, Who is that man? I didn't know you. And I crept down the stairs and up the stereo look again, and still your spade kept lifting. Then you came in. I heard your rumbling voice in the kitchen, and I don't know why, But I went near to see with my own eyes. You could sit there with the stains on your shoes the fresh earth from your own baby's graveyard talk about your everyday concerns. You had stood the spade up against the wallOutside there in the entry, for I saw it.”" I shall laugh the worst laugh I ever laughed. I'm cursed. God, if I don't believe I'm cursed.”" I can repeat the very words you were saying:'Three foggy mornings and one rainy day Will rot the best birch fence a man can build.' Think of it, talk like that at such a time! What had how long it takes a birch to motto do with what was in the darkened parlor? You couldn't care! The nearest friends can with anyone to death, comes so far shortly might as well not try to go at all. No, from the time when one is sick to death, One is alone, and he dies more alone. Friends make pretense of following to the grave, But before one is in it, their minds are turned making the best of their way back to highland living people, and things they understand. But the world's evil. I won't have grief soil I can change it. Oh, I won't, I won't!”" There, you have said it all and you feel better. You won't go now. You're crying. Close the door. The heart's gone out of it: why keep it up? Amyl There's someone coming down the road!”" You -- oh, you think the talk is all. I must go --Somewhere out of this house. How can I make you ----”"If -- you -- do!” She was opening the door wider.” Where do you mean to go? First tell me that. I'll follow and bring you back by force. I will! --” 
 

 I left you in the morning, And in the morning glow, You walked a way beside me To make me sad to go. Do you know me in the gloaming, Gaunt and dusty gray with roaming? Are you dumb because you know me not, Or dumb because you know? All for me And not a question For the faded flowers gay That could take me from beside you For the ages of a day? They are yours, and be the measure Of their worth for you to treasure, The measure of the little while That I've been long away. 
 

 These pools that, though in forests, still reflective total sky almost without defect, And like the flowers beside them, chill and shiver, Will like the flowers beside them soon be gone, And yet not out by any brook or river, But up by roots to bring dark foliage on. The trees that have it in their pent-up burst darken nature and be summer woods -Let them think twice before they use their powers blot out and drink up and sweep swathes flowery waters and these watery flowersFrom snow that melted only yesterday. 
 

 How countlessly they congregate'er our tumultuous snow, Which flows in shapes as tall as freshen wintry winds do blow!--As if with keenness for our fate, Our faltering few steps onto white rest, and a place of restInvisible at dawn, --And yet with neither love nor hate, Those stars like some snow-whiteMinerva's snow-white marble eyesWithout the gift of sight. 
 

 The shattered water made a misty din. Great waves looked over others coming in, And thought of doing something to the shore That water never did to land before. The clouds were low and hairy in the skies, Like locks blown forward in the gleam of eyes. You could not tell, and yet it looked as if The shore was lucky in being backed by cliff, The cliff in being backed by continent; It looked as if a night of dark intent Was coming, and not only a night, an age. Someone had better be prepared for rage. There would be more than ocean-water broken Before God's last Put out the light was spoken. 
 

 The well was dry beside the door, And so we went with pail and across the fields behind the housetop seek the brook if still it ran;Not both to have excuse to go, Because the autumn eve was fair(Though chill), because the fields were ours, And by the brook our woods were there. We ran as if to meet the monotheist slowly dawned behind the trees, The barren boughs without the leaves, Without the birds, without the breeze. But once within the wood, we pausedLike gnomes that hid us from the moon, Ready to run to hiding with laughter when she found us soon. Each laid on other a staying hand listen ere we dared to look, And in the hush we joined to make heard, we knew we heard the brook. A note as from a single place, A slender tinkling fall that made drops that floated on the poolside pearls, and now a silver blade. 
 

 From where I lingered in a lull in March outside the sugar-house one night for choice, I called the fireman with a careful voiced bade him leave the pan and stoke the arch:'O fireman, give the fire another stoke, And send more sparks up chimney with the smoke.' I thought a little might tangle, as they did, Among bare maple boughs, and in the rare Hill atmosphere not cease to glow, And so be added to the moon up there. The moon, though slight, was moon enough to shown every tree a bucket with a lid, And on black ground a bear-skin rug of snow. The sparks made no attempt to be the moon. They were content to figure in the trees As Leo, Orion, and the Pleiades. And that was what the boughs were full of soon. 
 

 The buzz-saw snarled and rattled in the Garland made dust and dropped stove-length sticks of wood, Sweet-scented stuff when the breeze drew across it. And from there those that lifted eyes could contrive mountain ranges one behind the thereunder the sunset far into Vermont. And the saw snarled and rattled, snarled and rattled, As it ran light, or had to bear a load. And nothing happened: day was all but done. Call it a day, I wish they might have said please the boy by giving him the half fourth a boy counts so much when saved from work. His sister stood beside them in her pronto tell them “Supper.” At that word, the saw, As if to prove saws knew what supper meant, Leaped out at the boy's hand, or seemed to leap -He must have given the hand. However it was, Neither refused the meeting. But the hand! The boy's first outcry was a rueful laugh, As he swung toward them holding up the handball in appeal, but half as if to seethe life from spilling. Then the boy saw all -Since he was old enough to know, big bonding a man's work, though a child at heart -He saw all spoiled. “Don't let him cut my hand off -The doctor, when he comes. Don't let him, sister!” So. But the hand was gone already. The doctor put him in the dark of ether. He lay and puffed his lips out with his breath. And then — the watcher at his pulse took fright. No one believed. They listened at his heart. Little — less — nothing! — and that ended it. No more to build on there. And they, since heavier not the one dead, turned to their affairs. 
 

 Love has earth to which she clingsWith hills and circling arms about- Wall within wall to shut fear out. But Thought has need of no such things, For Thought has a pair of dauntless wings. On snow and sand and turn, I somewhere Love has left a printed therewith straining in the world's embrace. And such is Love and glad to debut Thought has shaken his ankles free. Thought cleaves the interstellar gloomed sits in Sirius' disc all night, Till day makes him retrace his flightier smell of burning on every plume, Back past the sun to an earthly room. His gains in heaven are what they are. Yet some say Love by being Thailand simply staying possesses Allen several beauties that Thought fares Fargo find fused in another star. 
 

 But outer Space, At least this far, For all the fusion the populaceStays more population populous 
 

 Age saw two quiet children Go loving by at twilight, He knew not whether homeward, Or outward from the village, Or (chimes were ringing) churchyard, He waited, (they were strangers) Till they were out of hearing To bid them both be happy. 'Be happy, happy, happy, And seize the day of pleasure.' The age-long theme is Age's. 'Twas Age imposed on poems Their gather-roses burden To warn against the danger That overtaken lovers From being over flooded With happiness should have it. And yet not know they have it. But bid life seize the present? It lives less in the present Than in the future always, And less in both together Than in the past. The present Is too much for the senses, Too crowding, too confusing- Too present to imagine. 
 

 Spades take up leaves No better than spoons, And bags full of leaves light as balloons. I make a great noise rustling all alike rabbit and overrunning away. But the mountains I raiseElude my embrace, Flowing over my Armand into my face. I may load and unloadAgain and daintily I fill the whole shed, And what have I then? Next to nothing for weight, And since they grew dullerFrom contact with earth, Next to nothing for color. Next to nothing for use. But a crop is a crop, And who's to say weather harvest shall stop? 
 

 I dwell in a lonely house I Northam vanished many a summer ago, And left no trace but the cellar walls, And a cellar in which the daylight falls, And the purple-stemmed wild raspberries grow. O'er ruined fences the grape-vines shield woods come back to the mowing field;The orchard tree has grown one copse new wood and old where the woodpecker chops;The footpath down to the well is healed. I dwell with a strangely aching hairpin that vanished abode there far Parton that disused and forgotten roadway has no dust-bath now for the toad. Night comes; the black bats tumble and dart;The whippoorwill is coming to thousand hush and cluck and flutter about:I hear him begin far enough awful many a time to say his before he arrives to say it out. It is under the small, dim, summer star. I know not who these mute folk earth share the unlit place with me--Those stones out under the low-limbed treeDoubtless bear names that the mosses mar. They are tireless folk, but slow and sad, Though two, close-keeping, are lass and lad, --With none among them that ever sings, And yet, in view of how many things, As sweet companions as might be had. 
 

 Tree at my window, window tree, My sash is lowered when night comes on; But let there be never curtain drawnBetween you and me. Vague dream head lifted out of the ground, And thing next most diffuse to cloud, Not all your light tongues talking aloudCould be profound. But tree, I have seen you taken and tossed, And if you have seen me when I slept, You have seen me when I was taken and sweatband all but lost. That day she put our heads together, Fate had her imagination about her, Your head so much concerned with outer, Mine with inner, weather. 
 

 The way a crowfoot down on Bethe dust of snowdrop a hemlock trees given my heart change of mainland saved some part Of a day I had rued. 
 

 As I came to the edge of the woods, Thrush music -- hark! Now if it was dusk outside, Inside it was dark. Too dark in the woods for a bird By sleight of wing To better its perch for the night, Though it still could sing. The last of the light of the sun That had died in the west Still lived for one song more In a thrush's breast. Far in the pillared dark Thrush music went -- Almost like a call to come in To the dark and lament. But no, I was out for stars; I would not come in. I meant not even if asked; And I hadn't been. 
 

 We dance round in a ring and suppose, But the Secret sits in the middle and knows. 
 

 I found a dimpled spider, fat and white, On a white heal-all, holding up a motive a white piece of rigid satin cloth --Assorted characters of death and blighted ready to begin the morning right, Like the ingredients of a witches' broth --A snow-drop spider, a flower like a froth, And dead wings carried like a paper kite. What had that flower to do with being white, The wayside blue and innocent heal-all? What brought the kindred spider to that height, Then steered the white moth thither in the night? What but design of darkness to appall?--If design govern in a thing so small. 
 
