
 The truth is in the prologue.  Death to the romantic fool, to the expert in solitary confinement, I'm the same as the teacher from Colombia, the Rotarian from Philadelphia, the merchant from Payson who save his silver to come here.  We all arrive by different streets, by unequal languages, at Silence. 
 

 Today is that day, the day that carried desperate light that since has died. Don't let the squatters know:let's keep it all between us, day, between your Welland my secret. Today is dead winter in the forgotten land that comes to visit me, with a cross on the map and a volcano in the snow, to return to me, to return again the water fallen on the roof of my childhood. Today when the sun began with its shafts to tell the story, so clear, so old, the slanting rain fell like a sword, the rain my hard heart welcomes. You, my love, still asleep in August, my queen, my woman, my vastness, my geography kiss of mud, the carbon-coated zither, you, vestment of my persistent song, today you are reborn again and with the sky'black water confuse me and compel me:I must renew my bones in your kingdom, I must still cloud my earthly duties. 
 

 There is something dense, united, settled in the depths, repeating its number, its identical sign. How it is noted that stones have touched time, in their refined matter there is an odor of age, of water brought by the sea, from salt and sleep. I'm encircled by a single thing, a single movement: a mineral weight, a honeyed light cling to the sound of the word “niche”:the tint of wheat, of ivory, of tears, things of leather, of wood, of wool, archaic, faded, uniform, collect around me like walls. I work quietly, wheeling over myself, a crow over death, a crow in mourning. I mediate, isolated in the spread of seasons, centric, encircled by a silent geometry:a partial temperature drifts down from the sky, a distant empire of confused unities reunites encircling me. 
 

 Oceanic dawn at the center of my life, waves like grapes, the sky's solitude, you fill mean flood the complete sea, the undiminished sky, tempoand space, sea foam's white battalions, the orange earth, the sun'fiery waist in agony, so many gifts and talents, birds soaring into their dreams, and the sea, the sea, suspendedaroma, chorus of rich, resonant salt, and meanwhile, we men, touch the water, struggling,and hoping, we touch the sea, hoping. And the waves tell the firm coast:'Everything will be fulfilled.' 
 

 Poetry is white:it comes from water swathed in drops, it wrinkles and gathers, this planet's skin has to spread out, the sea's whiteness has to be ironed out, and the hands keep moving, the sacred surfaces get smoothed, and things are done this way:the hands make the world every day, fire conjoins with steel, linen, canvas, and cotton arrive from the scuffles in the laundries, and from light a dove is born:chastity returns out of the foam. 
 

 Do you remember when in winter we reached the island? The sea raised toward USA crown of cold. On the walls the climbing vines murmured letting dark leaves falls we passed. You too were a little leaf that trembled on my chest. Life's wind put you there. At first, I did not see you: I did not know that you were walking with me, until your roots pierced my chest joined the threads of my blood spoke through my mouth flourished with me. Thus was your inadvertent presence invisible leaf or branch and suddenly my heart was filled with fruits and sounds occupied the house that darkly awaited you and then you lit the lamps....the island of stone and moss echoed in the secret of its grottoes like the song in your mouth and the flower that was born between the crevices of the stone with its secret syllables pole, as it passed, your name of blazing plant and the steep rock raised like the wall of the world, knew my song, well-beloved, and all things spoke of your love, my love, beloved because earth, time, sea, island life, tide the seed that half open sits lips in the earth the devouring flower the movement of spring everything recognizes us. Our love was born outside the wall sin the winding the nightie the earth and that's why the clay and the flower the mud and the roots know your name and know that my mouth joined yours because we were sown together in the earth and we alone did not know stand that we grow together and flower together and therefore when we pass your name is on the petals of the rose that grows on the stone, my name is in the grottoesThey know it Allie have no secrets we have grown together but we did not know it. The sea knows our love, the stones of the rocky height know that our kisses flowered with infinite purity as in their crevices a scarlet mouth dawns just as our love and the kiss that joins your mouth and Milan an eternal flower. My love, sweet spring, flower and sea, surround us. We did not change it for our winter when the wind began to decipher your name and today at all hours it repeatswhenthe leaves did not know that you were a leafwhenthe roots did not know that you were seeking man my breast. Love, love, springoffers us the sky but the dark earths our name our love belongs to all time and the earth. Loving each other, my arm beneath your neck of sand we shall waits earth and time change on the islands the leaves fall from the silent climbing vines as autumn departs through the broken window. But were going to wait for our friend our red-eyed friend the fire, when the wind again shakes the frontiers of the island and does not know the names of everyonewinterwill seek us, my lovealwaysit will seek us, because we know it because we do not fear it because have with usfireforever, spring with usforeverand when a leaffallsfrom the climbing vines you know, my love what name is written on that leaf,a name that is yours and mine our love name, a single being, the arrow that pierced winter the invincible love the fire of the days leaf that dropped upon my breast leaf from the tree of life that made a nest and sang that put out roots that gave flowers and fruits. And so you see, my love, how I move around the island around the world safe in the midst of spring crazy with light in the cold walking tranquil in the fire lifting your petal weight in my arms as if I had never walkedexcpet with you, my hearts if I could not walk except with yours if I could not sing except when you sing. 
 

 I don't believe in age. All old peoplecarryin their eyes, a child, and children, at times observe us with the eyes of wise ancients. Shall we measurelifein meters or kilometers or months? How far since you were born? How long must you wanderuntillike all men instead of walking on its surface we rest below the earth? To the man, to the woman who utilized their energies, goodness, strength, anger, love, tenderness, to those who trulyaliveflowered, and in their sensuality matured, let us not apply the measure of a time that may be something else, a mineral mantle, a solar bird, a flower, something, maybe, but not a measure. Time, metal or bird, longpetiolate flower, stretchthroughman's life, shower him with blossom sand withbrightwateror with hidden sun. I proclaim you road, not shroud, a pristineladderwith treads of air, a suit lovinglyrenewedthrough springtimesaround the world. Now, time, I roll you up, I deposit you in my bait box and I am off to fish with your long line the fishes of the dawn!translated from the Spanish by Margaret Sayers Eden 
 

 I'm Ramón González Barbarella from anywhere, from Lucy, from Paraná, from Rio Turbo, from Our, from Maracaibo, from Array, from Value, from Loconmilla, I'm the poor devil from the poor Third World, I'm the third-class passenger installed, good God! In the lavish whiteness of snow-covered mountains, concealed among orchids of subtle idiosyncrasy. I've arrived at this famous year 2000, and what do I get? With what do I scratch myself?� What do I have to do with the three glorious zeros that flaunt themselves over my very own zero, my own non-existence? Pity that brave heart awaiting its call or the man enfolded by warmer love, nothing's left today except my flimsy skeleton, my eyes unhinged, confronting the era's beginning. The era's beginning: are these ruined shacks, these poor schools, these people still in rags and tatters, this cloddish insecurity of my poor families, is all this the day? The century's beginning, the golden door? Well, enough said, I, at least, discreet, as in office, patched and pensive, I proclaim the redundancy of the inaugural: I've arrived here with all my baggage, bad luck and worse jobs, misery always waiting with open arms, the mobilization of people piled up on top of each other, and the manifold geography of hunger. 
 

 The animals were imperfect, long-tailed,unfortunate in their heads. Little by little they put themselves together, making themselves a landscape, acquiring spots, grace, flight. The cat, only the cat appeared complete and proud:he was born completely finished, walking alone and knowing what he wanted. Man wants to be fish or fowl, the snake would like to have wings the dog is a disoriented lion, the engineer would like to be a poet, the fly studies to be a swift, the poet tries to imitate the fly, but the cat only wants to be a cat and any cat is a cat from his whiskers to his tail, from his hopeful vision of a ratio the real thing, from the night to his golden eyes. There is no unity like him, the moon and the flower do not have such context:he is just one thing like the sun or the topaz, and the elastic line of his contour sis firm and subtle like the line of a ship's prow. His yellow eye shave just onegrooveto coin the gold of nighttime.Oh, little emperor without a sphere of influence conqueror without a country, smallest living-room tiger, nuptial sultan of the sky, of the erotic roof-tiles, the wind of Logan the storm you claim when you pas sand place four delicate phaeton the ground, smelling,distrusting all that is terrestrial, because everything is too unclean for the immaculate foot of the cat.Oh, independent wild beast of the housearrogantvestige of the night, lazy, gymnastic and alien, very deep cat, secret policeman of bedrooms, insigniaof disappeared velvet, surely there is noenigmain your manner, perhaps you are not a mystery, everyone knows of you and you belong to the least mysterious inhabitant, perhaps everyone believes it, everyone believes himself the owner, proprietor,uncle of a cat, companion,colleague, discipleor friend of his cat. Not me. I do not subscribe. I do not know the cat. I know it all, life and its archipelago, the sea and the incalculable city, botany,the lyceum and its frenzies, the plus and the minus of mathematics, the volcanic frauds of the world, the unreal shell of the crocodile, the unknown kindness of the fireman, the blue atavism of the priest, but I cannot decipher a cat. My reason slips on his indifference, his eyes have golden numbers. 
 

 Oh, yes I knew him, I spent years with him, with his golden and stony substance, he was a man who was tired — in Paraguay he left his father and mother, his sons, his nephews, his latest in-laws, his house, his chickens, and some half-opened books. They called him to the door. When he opened it, the police took him, and they beat him up so much that he spat blood in France, in Denmark, in Spain, in Italy, moving about, and so he died and I stopped seeing his face, stopped hearing his profound silence ;then once, on a night of storms, with snow spreading smooth cloak on the mountains, on horseback, there, far off, I looked and there was my friend — his face was formed in stone, his profile defied the wild weather, in his nose the wind was muffling the moaning of the persecuted. There the exile came to ground. Changed into stone, he lives in his own country. 
 

 Come with me, I said, and no one knew where, or how my pain throbbed, no carnations or barcaroles for me, only a wound that love had opened. I said it again: Come with me, as if I were dying, and no one saw the moon that bled in my mouth or the blood that rose into the silence. O Love, now we can forget the star that has such thorns! That is why when I heard your voice repeatable with me, it was as if you had let loose the grief, the love, the fury of a cork-trapped wine the geysers flooding from deep in its vault:in my mouth I felt the taste of fire again, of blood and carnations, of rock and scald. 
 

 To the solemn sea the old women come With their shawls knotted around their necks With their fragile feet cracking. They sit down alone on the shore Without moving their eyes or their hands Without changing the clouds or the silence. The obscene sea breaks and claws Rushes downhill trumpeting Shakes its bull's beard. The gentle old ladies seated As if in a transparent boat They look at the terrorist waves. Where will they go and where have they been? They come from every corner They come from our own lives. Now they have the ocean The cold and burning emptiness The solitude full of flames. They come from all the pasts From houses which were fragrant From burnt-up evenings. They look, or don't look, at the sea With their walking sticks they draw signs in the sand And the sea erases their calligraphy. The old women get up and go away With their fragile bird feet While the waves flood in Traveling naked in the wind. 
 

 One time more, my love, the net of light extinguishes work, wheels, flames, boredom and farewells, and we surrender the swaying wheat to night, the wheat that noon stole from earth and light. The moon alone in the midst of its clear page sustains the pillars of Heaven’s Bay, the room acquires the slowness of gold, and your hands go here and there preparing night. O love, O night. O cupola ringed by a river of impenetrable water in the shadows of Heaven, that raises and drowns its tempestuous orbs, until we are only the one dark space glass into which fall celestial ashes, one drop in the flow of a vast slow river. 
 

 The light that rises from your feet to your hair, the strength enfolding your delicate form, are not mother-of-pearl, not chilly silver:you are made of bread, a bread the fire adores. The grain grew high in its harvest of you, in good time the flour swelled;as the dough rose, doubling your breasts, my love was the coal waiting ready in the earth. Oh, bread your forehead, your legs, your mouth, bread I devour, born with the morning light, my love, beacon-flag of the bakeries:fire taught you a lesson of the blood;you learned your holiness from flour, from bread your language and aroma. 
 

 Three triangles of birds crossed Over the enormous ocean which extended In winter like a green beast. Everything just lay there, the silence, The unfolding gray, the heavy light Of space, some land now and then. Over everything there was passing A flight And another flight Of dark birds, winter bodies Trembling triangles Whose wings, Frantically flapping, hardly Can carry the gray cold, the desolate days From one place to another Along the coast of Chile. I am here while from one sky to another The trembling of the migratory birds Leaves me sunk inside myself, inside my own matter Like an everlasting well Dug by an immovable spiral. Now they have disappeared Black feathers of the sea Iron birds From steep slopes and rock piles Now at noon I am in front of emptiness. It’s a winter Space stretched out And the sea has put Over its blue face A bitter mask. 
 

 No the AMO Como SI funeral Rosa DE Sal, tobacco o flèche DE clavicles Que pro pagan El fuel: the AMO Como sea man charts costs occurs, secretamente, entire la samba y El Alma. Te AMO Como la Planta Que no Florence y lava entry DE SI, Escondido, la Luz DE quells Flores, y gracias a TU armor five occur en mi Puerto El already aroma Que ascended DE la Terra. Te AMO sin saber Como, NI candy, NI DE done, the AMO directamente sin problems NI Arguello: as the AMO torque no SE Amar DE okra mantra, sing as DE ester mode en Que no soy NI airs, tan circa Que TU many sober mi echo BS MIA, tan circa Que SE overran us dojos con mi steno. 
 

 Writingtheseodesin this year nineteen hundred andfifty-five, readying and tuning my demanding, murmuring lyre, I know who I Amanda where my song is going. I understand that the shopper for myth sand mysteries may enter my woodland adobe house of odes, may despise the utensils, the portraits of father and mother and country on the walls, the simplicity of the bread and the saltcellar. Butthats how it is in my house of odes. I deposed the dark monarchy, the useless flowing hair of dreams, I trod on the tailor the cerebral reptile, and set things-- water and fire -in harmony with man and earth. I want everything to have handle, I want everything to BEA cup or a tool, I want people to enter a hardware store through the door of my odes. I work atcuttingnewly hook boards, storing casks of honey, arranginghorseshoes, harness, forks:I want everyone to enter here, let them ask questions, ask for anything they want. I am from the South, a Chilean, a sailorreturnedfrom the seas. I did not stay in the islands, a king. I did not stay ensconce din the land of dreams. I returned to labor simply beside others, for everyone. So that everyone may live here, I build my house with transparent odes. 
 

 I touch hatred like a covered breast;I without stopping go from garment to garment, sleeping at a distance. I am not, I'm of no use, I do not know anyone; I have no weapons of ocean or wood, I do not live in this house. My mouth is full of night and water. The abiding moon determines what I do not have. What I have is in the midst of the waves, a ray of water, a day for myself, an iron depth. There is no cross-tide, there is no shield, no costume, there is no special solution too deep to be sounded, no vicious eyelid. I live suddenly and other times I follow. I touch a face suddenly and it murders me. I have no time. Do not look for me when drawing the usual wild thread or the bleeding net. Do not call me: that is my occupation. Do not ask my name or my condition. Leave me in the middle of my own mooning my wounded ground. 
 

 What it takes on this planet, to make love to each other in peace. Everyone pries under your sheets, everyone interferes with your loving. They say terrible things about a man and a woman, who after much milling about, all sorts of compunctions, do something unique, they both lie with each other in one bed. I ask myself whether frogs are so furtive, or sneeze as they please. Whether they whisper to each other in swamps about illegitimate frogs, or the joys of amphibious living. I ask myself if birds single out enemy birds, or bulls gossip with bullocks before they go out in public with cows. Even the roads have eyes and the parks their police. Hotels spy on their guests, windows name names, canons and squadrons debark on missions to liquidate love. All those ears and those jaws working incessantly, till a man and his girl have to raise their climax, full tilt, on a bicycle. 
 

 There were the waves shatter on the restless rocks the clear light bursts and enacts its rose, and the sea-circle shrinks to a cluster of buds, to one drop of blue salt, falling. O bright magnolia bursting in the foam, magnetic transient whose death bloom sand vanishes--being, nothingness--forever:broken salt, dazzling lurch of the sea. You & I, Love, together we ratify the silence, while the sea destroys its perpetual statues, collapses its towers of wild speed and whiteness:because in the weaving of those invisible fabrics, galloping water, incessant sand, we make the only permanent tenderness. 
 

 Every morning you wait, clothes, over a chair, to fill yourself with my vanity, my love, my hope, my body. Barelyrisen from sleep, I relinquish the water, enter your sleeves, my legs look forth hollows of your legs, and so embraced by your indefatigable faithfulness rise, to tread the grass, enter poetry, consider through the windows, the things, the men, the women, the deeds and the fights go on forming me, go on making me face things working my hands, opening my eyes, using my mouth, and so, clothes,I too go forming you, extending your elbows, snapping your threads, and so your life expand sin the image of my life. In the wind you billow and snaps if you were my soul, at bad times you cling to my bones, vacant, for the night, darkness, sleep populate with their phantoms your wings and mine. I wonder if one day bullet from the enemy will leave you stained with my blood and then you will die with Moor one day not quite so dramatic but simple, you will fall ill, clothes,with me, grow old with me, with my body and joined we will enter the earth. Because of this each day greet you with reverence and then you embrace me and I forget you, because we are one and we will go on facing the wind, in the night, the streets or the fight, a single body, one day, one day, some day, still. 
 

 The names of God and especially those of His representative Who is called Jesus or Christ according to holy books and someone's mouth These names have been used, worn out and left On the shores of rivers of human lives Like the empty shells of a mollusk. However, when we touch these sacred but exhausted Names, these wounded scattered petals Which have come out of the oceans of love and fear Something still remains, a sip of water, A rainbow footprint that still shimmers in the light. While the names of God were used By the best and the worst, by the clean and the dirty By the white and the black, by bloody murderers And by victims flaming gold with napalm While Nixon with his hands Of Cain blessed those whom he condemned to death, While fewer and fewer divine footprints were found on the beach People began to study colors, The future of honey, the sign of uranium They looked with anxiety and hope for the possibilities Of killing themselves or not killing themselves, of organizing themselves into a fabric Of going further on, of breaking through limits without stopping What we came across in these blood thirsty times With their smoke of burning trash, their dead ashes As we weren't able to stop looking We often stopped to look at the names of God We lifted them with tenderness because they reminded us Of our ancestors, of the first people, those who said the prayers Those who discovered the hymn that united them in misfortune And now seeing the empty fragments which sheltered those ancient people We feel those smooth substances, Worn out and used up by good and by evil. 
 

 This day, Today, was a brimming glass. This day, Today, was an immense wave. This day was all the Earth. This day, the storm-driven ocean lifted us up in a kiss so exalted we trembled at the lightning flash and bound as one, fell, and drowned, without being unbound. This day our bodies grew stretched out to Earth’s limits, orbited there, melded thereto one globe of wax, or a meteor’s flame. A strange door opened, between us, and someone, with no face as yet, waited for us there. 
 

 Rise up to be born with me, brother. Give me your hand from the deep Zone seeded by your sorrow. You won’t return from under the rocks. You won’t return from your subterranean time. Your hardened voice won’t return. Your gouged-out eyes won’t return. Look at me from the depth of the earth, laborer, weaver, silent shepherd: tamer of wild llamas like spirit images: construction worker on a daring scaffold: watered of the tears of the Andes: jeweler with broken fingers: farmer trembling as you sow: potter, poured out into your clay: bring to the cup of this new life your old buried sorrows. Show me your blood and your furrow, Tell me, “Here I was punished, Because the jewel didn’t shine or the earth Didn’t yield grain or stones on time.” Show me the stone you fell over And the wood on which they crucified you, Make a spark from the old flints for me, For the old lamps to show the whips still stuck After centuries in the old wounds And the axes shining with blood. I come to speak for your dead mouth. Across the earth come together all The silent worn-out lips And from the depth speak to me all this long night Like I was pinned down there with you. Tell me all, chain by chain, Link by link and step by step, Sharpen the knives which you hid, Put them in my breast and in my hand, Like a river of yellow lighting Like a river of buried jaguars And let me weep, hours, days, years, For blind ages, cycles of stars. Give me silence, water, hope. Give me struggle, iron, volcanoes. Stick bodies to me like magnets. Draw near to my veins and my mouth. Speak through my words and my blood. 
 

 La called Leno DE tomatoes, mediodia, verano, la use par teen dosmitadesde tomato, correpor leis calluses Hugo. En diciembrese debate tomato, invadelas cockneys, entra POR Los almuerzos, se sientareposadoen Los paradoxes, entre Los vases, las matequilleras, los sales azures. Tieneluz profit, majestad benign. Debemos, POR disgrace, asesinarlo:SE hundred cuchilloen SU pulp Vivienne, es RNA rojaviscera, un sol fresco, profundo, inagotable, lle Na leis ensaladasde Chile, se Casey alegrementecon la Clara corolla, y para celebrarlose dejacaeraceite, hijoesencial Del olive, sobre SUS hemispheres entreabiertos, agregala pimientos Francis, la Sal SU magnetism:son leis boarded dial perejillevantabanderines, las papashierven vigorosamente, el asadogolpeacon SU aromaen la Puerto, es hora!Amos!y sorely mesa, en la citadel Vernon, el tomato, astro DE Terra, estrellarepetiday fecund, nos muestrasus circunvoluciones, sus canals, la inside plenitude la abundanciasin hues, sin coral, sin escapes NI spinal, nos entreated regal ode SU color photos la totalized DE SU pressure.  
 

 (Original Spanish; can someone provide the title?) Sucede Que me cans ode SER hombre. Sucede Que entry en leis Asturias y en Los cinesmarchito, impenetrable, Como UN cine DE fieltroNavegando en UN Agra DE origin y Eliza. El color DE leis peluquerías me have flora a grits. Sólo fewer UN descant DE piers ode Lana, sólo fewer no very establecimientos NI sardines, ni Mercaris, NI anterior, NI sensors. Secede Que me cans ode mi spies y MIS uneasy mi polo y mi samba. Sucede Que me cans ode SER hombre. Sin embargo serial deliciosoasustar an UN Ontario con UN limit corridor DAR Puerto an RNA Mona con UN gone DE area. Sería bellows POR leis calls con UN Churchill versa dandy grits pasta Morin DE trio No fewer Seguin send rail en leis tinsels, vacilante, extended, tiritando DE steno, hacia banjo, en leis tapas monads DE la Terra, absorbiendo y peasants, commando CADA did. No fewer para MI Qantas disgraces. No fewer continual DE rail y DE tuba, de subterranean solo, DE bodega con muertosateridos, burdensome DE Pena. POR ESO El did lines are Como El petróleocuando me ve clear con mi Carey DE cancel, y Sulla en SU transfers Como RNA rued Merida, y the pass DE Sanger client Dacia la niche. Y me tempura a charts rincóns, a charts cases humerus, a hospitals done Los guests sale POR la Montana, a charts cafeterias con color a vintage, a calls Espinosa Como traits. Hay pajamas DE color DE azure y horrible intestinoscolgando DE leis Puerto DE leis cases Que Ohio, hay centaurs olvidadas en RNA cafeteria, hay espejosque Debian Haber Colorado DE verbena y es panto, hay Paraguay en today parts, y veneers, y obliges.To Pasco con calm, con dojos, con Zapata, con curia, con Ovid, paso, Cruz official y tends DE orthopedic, y patios done hay ropes coleads DE UN Alhambra:calzoncillos, Dallas y cameras Que lloranlentas Grimes social. Pablo Neruda(English Translation of Walking Around by Robert BLY)It so happens I am sick of being a man. And it happens that I walk into tailor shops and moviehousesdried up, waterproof, like a swan made of felt steering my way in water of wombs and ashes. The smell of barbershops makes me break into hoarse sobs. The only thing I want is to lie still like stones or wool. The only thing I want is to see no more stores, no gardens, no more goods, no spectacles, no elevators. It so happens that I am sick of my feet and my nail sand my hair and my shadow. It so happens I am sick of being a man.Still, it would be marvelous to terrify a law clerk with a cut lily, or kill a nun with a blow on the ear. It would be great to go through the streets with a green knife letting out yells until I died of the cold. I don't want to go on being a root in the dark, insecure, stretched out, shivering with sleep, going on down, into the moist guts of the earth, taking in and thinking, eating every day. I don't want so much misery. I don't want to go on as a root and a tomb, alone under the ground, a warehouse with corpses, half frozen, dying of grief. That's why Monday, when it sees me coming with my convict face, blazes up like gasoline, and it howls on its way like a wounded wheel, and leaves tracks full of warm blood leading toward the night. And it pushes me into certain corners, into some moist houses, into hospitals where the bones fly out the window, into shoe shops that smell like vinegar, and certain streets hideous as cracks in the skin. There are sulphur-colored birds, and hideous intestines hanging over the doors of houses that I hate, and there are false teeth forgotten in a coffeepot, there are mirrors that ought to have wept from shame and terror, there are umbrellas everywhere, and venom, and umbilical cords. I stroll along serenely, with my eyes, my shoes, my rage, forgetting everything, I walk by, going through office buildings and orthopedic shops, and courtyards with washing hanging from the line:underwear, towels and shirts from which slow dirty tears are falling. 
 

 Your whole body has fullness or a gentleness destined for me. When I move my hand UPI find in each place a dove that was seeking me, Asif they had, love, made you of clay for my own potter's hands. Your knees, your breasts, your waist are missing parts of me like the hollow of a thirsty earth from which they broke off form, and together we are complete like a single river, like a single grain of sand. 
 

 Leave me a place underground, a labyrinth, where I can go, when I wish to turn, without eyes, without touch, in the void, to dumb stone, or the finger of shadow. I know that you cannot, no one, no thing can deliver up that place, or that path, but what can I do with my pitiful passions, if they are no use, on the surface of everyday life, if I cannot look to survive, except by dying, going beyond, entering into the state, metallic and slumbering, of primeval flame? 
 

 The tree is here, still, in pure stone, in deep evidence, in solid beauty, layered, through a hundred million years. Agate, Cornelia, gemstone transmuted the timber and sap until damp corruptionsfissured the giant's trunk fusing a parallel being:the living leaves unmade themselves and when the pillar was overthrown fire in the forest, blaze of the dust-cloud, celestial ashes mantled it round, until time, and the lava, created this gift, of translucent stone. 
 

 When the trumpet sounded, it was all prepared on the earth, the Jehovah parceled out the earth to Coca-Cola, Inc., Anaconda, Ford Motors, and other entities: The Fruit Company, Inc. reserved for itself the most succulent, the central coast of my own land, the delicate waist of America. It rechristened its territories as the ’Banana Republics’ and over the sleeping dead, over the restless heroes who brought about the greatness, the liberty and the flags, it established the comic opera: abolished the in dependencies, presented crowns of Caesar, unsheathed envy, attracted the dictatorship of the flies, Trujillo flies, Tycho flies, Arias flies, Marines flies, Rico flies, damp flies of modest blood and marmalade, drunken flies who zoom over the ordinary graves, circus flies, wise flies well-trained in tyranny. Among the blood-thirsty flies the Fruit Company lands its ships, taking off the coffee and the fruit; the treasure of our submerged territories flow as though on plates into the ships.Meanwhile, Indians are falling into the sugared chasms of the harbors, wrapped for burials in the mist of the dawn: a body rolls, a thing that has no name, a fallen cipher, a cluster of the dead fruit thrown down on the dump. 
 

 If your eyes were not the color of the moon, of a day full [here, interrupted by the baby waking — continued about 26hours later]of a day full of clay, and work, and fire, if even held-in you did not move in agile grace like the air, if you were not an amber week, not the yellow moment when autumn climbs up through the vines;if you were not that bread the fragrant moon kneads, sprinkling its flour across the sky, oh, my dearest, I could not love you so! But when I hold you I hold everything that is -sand, time, the tree of the rain, everything is alive so that I can be alive:without moving I can see it all:in your life I see everything that lives. 
 

 The gay young men and the love-sick girls, and the abandoned widows suffering in sleepless delirium, and the young pregnant wives of thirty hours, and the raucous cats that cruise my garden in the shadows, like a necklace of pulsating oysters of sex surround my lonely residence, like enemies lined up against my soul, like conspirators in bedroom clothes who exchange long deep kisses to order. The radiant summer leads to lovers in predictable melancholic regiments, made of fat and skinny, sad and happy pairings: under the elegant coconut palms, near the ocean and the moon, goes an endless movement of trousers and dresses, a whisper of silk stockings being caressed, and women's breasts that sparkle like eyes. The little employee, after it all, after the weeks' boredom, and novels read by night in bed, has definitively seduced the girl next door, and carried her away to a run-down movie house where the heroes are studs or princes mad with passion, and strokes her legs covered with soft down with his moist and ardent hands that smell of cigarettes. The seducers afternoons and married peoples nights come together like the sheets and bury me, and the hours after lunch when the young male students and the young girl students, and the priests, masturbate, and the creatures fornicate outright, and the bees smell of blood, and the flies madly buzz, and boy and girl cousins play oddly together, and doctors stare in fury at the young patients husband, and the morning hours in which the professor, as if to pass the time, performs his marriage duties, and breakfasts, and moreover, the adulterers, who love each other truly on beds as high and deep as ocean liners: finally, eternally surrounding me is a gigantic forest breathing and tangled with gigantic flowers like mouths with teeth and black roots in the shape of hooves and shoes. 
 

 I recall that man and not two centuries have passed since I saw him, he went neither by horse nor by carriage:purely on soothe outstripped distances, and carried no sword or armor, only nets on his shoulder, axe or hammer or spade, never fighting the rest of his species:his exploits were with water and earth, with wheat so that it turned into bread, with giant trees to render them wood, with walls to open up doors, with sand to construct the walls, and with ocean for it to bear. I knew him, and he is still not cancelled in me. The carriages fell to pieces, war destroyed doors and walls, the city was a handful of ashes, all the clothes turned to dust, and he remains to me, he survives in the sand, when everything before seemed imperishable but him. In the going and coming of families at times he was my father or kinsman or perhaps it was scarcely him or not the one who did not return to his house because water or earth swallowed him upon a tree or an engine killed him, or he was the saddened carpenter who went behind the coffin, without tears, someone in the end who had no name, except those that metal or timber have, and on whom others gazed from on high without seeing the ant for the anthill and so that when his feet did not stir, because the poor exhausted one had died, they never saw what they had not seen:already there were other feet where he'd been. The other feet were still his, and the other hands, the man remained:when it seemed that now he was done force was the same once more, there he was digging again at the earth, cutting cloth, minus a shirt, there he was and was not, like before, he had gone down and was once more, and since he never owned graveyards, or tombs, nor was his name carve don the stone he sweated to quarry, no one knew he had command no one knew when he died, so that only when the poor man could he returned to life once more, without it being noted. He was the man, no doubt of it, without heritage, without cattle, without a flag, and he was not distinguished from others, the others who were him, from the heights he was gray like the subsoil, tanned like the leather, he was yellow reaping the wheat, he was black down in the mine, he was the color of stone on the fortress, in the fishing boat the color of tuna, and the color of horses in the meadow:how could anyone distinguish him if he was inseparable, elemental, earth, coal or sea vested in man? Where he lived whatever man touched grew:the hostile stones, quarriedby his hands, took on order and one by one formed the right clarity of a building, he made bread with his hands, moved the engines, the distances peopled themselves with towns, other men grew, bees arrived, and by man's creating and breeding spring walked the market squares between bakeries and doves. The maker of loaves was forgotten, he who quarried and journeyed, beating down and opening furrows, transporting sand, when everything existed he no longer existed, he gave his existence, that's all. He went elsewhere to labor, and at lathe was dead, rolling like a stone in the river:death carried him downstream. I, who knew him, saw him descend till he was no longer except what he left:roads he could scarcely know, houses he never ever would live in. I turn to see him, and I await him see him in his grave and resurrected. I distinguish him among all who are his equals and it seems to me it cannot be, that like this we go nowhere, that to survive like this holds no glory. I believe that this man must be enthroned, rightly shod and crowned. I believe that those who made such things must be the masters of all these things. And that those who made bread should eat! And those in the mines must have light! Enough now of gray men enslaved! Enough of the pale 'missing ones'! Not another man passes except as a king. Not a single woman without her crown. Golden gauntlets for every hand. Fruits of the sun for all the unknowns! I knew that man and when I could, when he still had eyes in his head, when he still had a voice in his mouth searched for him among tombs, and I said grasping his arm that was not yet dust:'All will be gone, you will live on, You ignite life. You made what is yours.' So let no one trouble themselves when seem to be alone and am not alone, I am with no one and speak for them all:Some listen to me, without knowing, but those I sing, those who do know go on being born, and will fill up the Earth. 
 

 I hunt for a sign of you in all the others, In the rapid undulant river of women, Braids, shyly sinking eyes, Light step that slices, sailing through the foam. Suddenly I think I can make out your nails, Oblong, quick, nieces of a cherry:Then it's your hair that passes by, and I think see your image, a bonfire, burning in the water. I searched, but no one else had your rhythms, Your light, the shady day you brought from the forest;Nobody had your tiny ears. You are whole, exact, and everything you are is one,And, so I go along, with you, I float along, loving wide Mississippi toward a feminine sea. 
 

 Who ever desired each other as we do? Let us look for the ancient ashes of hearts that burned, and let our kisses touch there, one by one, till the flower, disembodied, rises again. Let us love that Desire that consumed its own fruit and went down, aspect and power, into the earth:We are its continuing light, its indestructible, fragile seed. 
 

 From your hips down to your feet want to make a long journey. I am smaller than an insect. Over these hills I pass, hills the color of oats, crossed with faint tracks that only I know, scorched centimeters, pale perspectives. Now here is a mountain. I shall never leave this. What a giant growth of moss! And a crater, a rose of moist fire! Coming down your legs trace a spiral, or sleep on the way, and arrive at your knees, round hardness like the hard peaks of a bright continent. Sliding down to your feet reach the eight slits of your pointed, slow, peninsular toes, and from them I fall down to the white emptiness of the sheet, seeking blindly and hungrily the form of your fiery crucible! 
 

 The street filled with tomatoes midday, summer,light ishalvedlikeatomato, its juicerunsthrough the streets. In December, unabated,the tomatoinvadesthe kitchen, it enters at lunchtime, takesits ease on countertops, among glasses, butter dishes, blue saltcellars. It shed sits own light, benign majesty. Unfortunately, we must murder it:the knifesinksinto living flesh, redviscera, a cool sun, profound,inexhaustible, pop plates the salads of Chile, happily, it is wed to the clear onion, and to celebrate the unionwepouroil, essentialchild of the olive, onto its halved hemispheres, pepperaddsits fragrance, salt, its magnetism;it is the wedding of the day, parsleyhoistsits flag, potatoesbubble vigorously, the aroma of the roastknocksat the door, it's time!come on!and, on the table, at the midpoint of summer, the tomato, star of earth, recurrentand fertile star, displaysits convolutions, its canals, its remarkable amplitude and abundance, no pit, no husk, no leaves or thorns, the tomato offer sits gift of fiery colorant cool completeness.  
 

 Already, you are mine. Rest with your dream inside my dream. Love, grief, labor, must sleep now. Night revolves on invisible wheel sand joined to me you are pure as sleeping amber. No one else will sleep with my dream, love. You will go we will go joined by the waters of time. No other one will travel the shadows with me, only you, eternal nature, eternal sun, eternal moon. Already your hands have opened their delicate fist sand let fall, without direction, their gentle signs, you eye enclosing themselves like two gray wings, while I follow the waters you bring that take me onwards:night, Earth, winds weave their fate, and already, not only am I not without you, I alone am your dream. 
 

 The memory of you emerges from the surrounding night. The river mingles its stubborn lament with the sea. Deserted like the wharves at dawn. It is the hour of departure, oh deserted one! Cold flower heads are raining over my heart.Oh, pit of debris, fierce cave of the shipwrecked. In you the wars and the flights accumulated. From you the wings of the song birds rose. You swallowed everything, like distance. Like the sea, like time. In you everything sank! It was the happy hour of assault and the kiss. The hour of the spell that blazed like a lighthouse. Pilot's dread, fury of blind driver, turbulent drunkenness of love, in you everything sank! In the childhood of mist my soul, winged and wounded. Lost discoverer, in you everything sank! You girdled sorrow, you clung to desire, sadness stunned you, in you everything sank! I made the wall of shadow draw back, beyond desire and act, I walked on. Oh flesh, my own flesh, woman whom I loved and lost, I summon you in the moist hour, I raise my song to you. Like a jar you housed infinite tenderness.and the infinite oblivion shattered you like a jar. There was the black solitude of the islands, and there, woman of love, your arms took me in. There was thirst and hunger, and you were the fruit. There were grief and ruins, and you were the miracle. Ah woman, I do not know how you could contain man the earth of your soul, in the cross of your arms! How terrible and brief my desire was to you! How difficult and drunken, how tensed and avid. Cemetery of kisses, there is still fire in your tombs, still the fruited boughs burn, pecked at by birds.Oh, the bitten mouth, oh the kissed limbs, oh the hungering teeth, oh the entwined bodies.Oh, the mad coupling of hope and force in which we merged and despaired. And the tenderness, light as water and as flour. And the word scarcely begun on the lips. This was my destiny and in it was my voyage of my longing, and in it my longing fell, in you everything sank!Oh, pit of debris, everything fell into you, what sorrow did you not express, in what sorrow are you not drowned! From billow to billow you still called and sang. Standing like a sailor in the prow of a vessel. You still flowered in songs, you still broke the currents.Oh, pit of debris, open and bitter well. Pale blind diver, luckless singer, lost discoverer, in you everything sank! It is the hour of departure, the hard cold hour which the night fastens to all the timetables. The rustling belt of the sea girdles the shore. Cold stars heave up, black birds migrate. Deserted like the wharves at dawn. Only tremulous shadow twists in my hands.Oh, farther than everything. Oh, farther than everything. It is the hour of departure. Oh, abandoned one! 
 

 Side pronto no existed, si de pronto no gives, yo require Vivienne. No me Trevor, no me Trevor an escribirlo, si te meres. Yo require Vivienne. Porque done no Taine VOZ UN hombreallí, mi VOZ. Donde Los Negros Sean pleads, yo no Puerto star Puerto. Cuando entree en la cancel MIS hermanosentraré yo con Ellis. Cuando la Victoria, no me Victoria, sino la gran Victoria league, aunque ester mud debt hangar:yo la very clear unique ester Diego. No, personae. Si TU no gives, si TU, queries, armor mid, SI tube has Puerto, todas leis Rojas camera en mi echo, lloverá sober mi Alma niche y did, la naive Guevara mi Corazón, andaré con trio y fuel y Puerto y naive, mis pies overran marcher Dacia done TU queries, pro require Vito, porque TU me quite sobretodas leis costs indomitable, y, armor, torque TU sales Que soy no solo UN hombres to-dos Los hombres. 
 

 I do not love you except because I love you; I go from loving to not loving you, From waiting to not waiting for you heart moves from cold to fire. I love you only because it's you the one I love; I hate you deeply, and hating you Bend to you, and the measure of my changing love for Louis that I do not see you but love you blindly. Maybe January light will consumer heart with its cruel Ray, stealing my key to true calm. In this part of the story I am the one woodies, the only one, and I will die of love because I love you, Because I love you, Love, in fire and blood. 
 

 Sadness, scarab with seven crippled feet, spiderweb egg, scramble-brained rat,bitch's skeleton:No entry here. Don't come in. Go away. Go back south with your umbrella, go back north with your serpent's teeth. A poet lives here. No sadness may cross this threshold. Through these windows comes the breath of the world, fresh red roses, flags embroidered with the victories of the people. No. No entry. Flapyour bat's wings, I will trample the feathers that fall from your mantle, I will sweep the bits and pieces of your carcass tithe four corners of the wind, I will wring your neck, I will stitch your eyelids shut, I will sew your shroud, sadness, and bury your rodent bones beneath the springtime of an apple tree. 
 

 I want you to know one thing. You know how this is: if I look at the crystal moon, at the red branch of the slow autumn at my window, if I touch near the fire the impalpable ash or the wrinkled body of the log, everything carries me to you, as if everything that exists, aromas, light, metals, were little boats that sail toward those isles of yours that wait for me. Well, now, if little by little you stop loving me I shall stop loving you little by little. If suddenly you forget me do not look for me, for I shall already have forgotten you. If you think it long and mad, the wind of banners that passes through my life, and you decide to leave me at the shore of the heart where I have roots, remember that on that day, at that hour, I shall lift my arms and my roots will set off to seek another land. But if each day, each hour, you feel that you are destined for me with implacable sweetness, if each day a flower climbs up to your lips to seek me, ah my love, ah my own, in me all that fire is repeated, in me nothing is extinguished or forgotten, my love feeds on your love, beloved, and as long as you live it will be in your arms without leaving mine. 
 

 It was the twilight of the iguana:From a rain bowing battlement, a tongue like a javelin lunging in verdure;an ant heap treading the jungle, monastic, on musical feet;the guano, oxygen-finein the high places swathed with distances, cobbling his feet into gold;the llama of scrupulous eye the widens his gaze on the Dawson a delicate world. A monkey is weaving thread of insatiable lust son the margins of morning:he topples a pollen-fall, startles the violet-flghtof the butterfly, wings on the Ouzo. It was the night of the alligator:snouts moving out of the slime, in original darkness, the ululations, a clatter of armor, opaque in the sleep of the bog, turning back to the chalk of the sources. The jaguar touches the leaves with his phosphorous absence, the puma speeds to his cover tin the blaze of his hungers, his eyeballs, a jungle of alcohol, burn in his head. 
 

 They all ask me to jump to invigorate and to play soccer, to run, to swim and to fly. Very well. They all advice me rest, they all send me to the doctor, looking at me a certain way. What happens? They all advice me to travel, to come and to leave, to stay, to die and not to die. It does not matter. They all see the difficulties of my surprised bowels by awful X-rayed portraits. I do not agree. They all sting my poetry with relentless forks seeking, without doubt, a fly, I Am afraid. I am afraid of everyone, of the cold water, of the death. I am like all the mortals, unavoidable. And for that, in these short days I am not going to pay attention to them, I am going to open myself up and shut myself in with my more perfidious enemy, Pablo Neruda. 
 

 Maybe you'll remember that razor-faced man who slipped out from the dark like a blade and — before we realized — knew what was there: he saw the smoke and concluded fire. The pallid woman with black hair rose like a fish from the abyss, and the two of them built up a contraption, armed to the teeth, against love. Man and woman, they felled mountains and gardens, then went down to the river, they scaled the walls, they hoisted their atrocious artillery up the hill. Then love knew it was called love. And when I lifted my eyes to your name, suddenly your heart showed me my way. 
 

 Luminous mind, bright devil of absolute clustering, of upright noon---:here we are at last, alone, without loneliness, far from the savage city's delirium. Just as a pure line describes the dove's curve, as the fire honors and nourishes peace, so you and I made this heavenly outcome. The mind and love live naked in this house. Furious dreams, rivers of bitter certainty, decisions harder than the dreams of a hammer flowed into the lovers' double cup, until those twins were lifted into balance on the scale: the mind and love, like two wings.---So this transparency was built. 
 

 My eyes went away from following a dark girl who went by. She was made of black motherofpearlMade of dark purple grapes, And she lashed my bloodbath her tail of fire. After them all I go. A pale blonde went byline a golden plantSwaying her gifts. And my mouth winglike a waveDischarging on her breastLightningbolts of blood. After them all I go. But to you, without my moving, Without seeing you, distant you, Go my blood and my kisses, My dark one and my fair one, My broad one and my slender one, My ugly one, my beauty, Made of all the Golden of all the silver, Made of all the wheaten of all the earth, Made of all the water sea waves, Made for my arcade for my kisses, Made for my soul. 
 

 Beloved of the rivers, beset By azure water and transparent drops, Like a tree of veins your specter Of dark goddess biting apples: And then awakening naked To be tattooed by the rivers, And in the wet heights your head Filled the world with new dew. Water rose to your waist, You are made of wellsprings And lakes shone on your forehead. From your sources of density you deepwater like vital tears And hauled the riverbeds to the sandAcross the planetary night, Crossing rough, dilated stone, Breaking down on the way All the salt of geology, Cutting through forests of compact wallsDislodging the muscles of quartz. 
 

 Spain was a taut, dry drum-head Daily beating a dull thud Flatland and eagle's nest Silence lashed by the storm. How much, to the point of weeping, in my soul I love your hard soil, your poor bread, Your poor people, how much in the deep place Of my being there is still the lost flower Of your wrinkled villages, motionless in time And your metallic meadows Stretched out in the moonlight through the ages, Now devoured by a false god. All your confinement, your animal isolation While you are still conscious Surrounded by the abstract stones of silence, Your rough wine, your smooth wine Your violent and dangerous vineyards. Solar stone, pure among the regions Of the world, Spain streaked With blood and metal, blue and victorious Proletarian Spain, made of petals and bullets Unique, alive, asleep — resounding. 
 

 I have named you queen. There are taller than you, taller. There are purer than you, purer. There are lovelier than you, lovelier. But you are the queen. When you go through the streets No one recognizes you. No one sees your crystal crown, no one looks At the carpet of red Goldman you tread as you pass, The nonexistent carpet. And when you apparel the rivers sounding my body, bellsShake the sky, And a hymn fills the world. Only you and I, Only you and I, my love, Listen to me.- - - - - - - - LA Regina Yo the he Colorado ran. Hay MAS altar Que TU, MAS altar. Hay MAS auras Que TU, MAS auras. Hay MAS bells Que TU, hay MAS bells. Pro TU airs la ran. Candy was POR leis calls Nadia the economy. Nadia ve TU corona DE crystal, Nadia Mira la Alhambra DE or Tojo Que visas done pass, la Alhambra Que no exist. Y candy aromas Sean to-dos Los Rios en mi Puerto, acumen El Cairo leis Campinas, y UN him no Elena El Mundo. Solo TU y yo, solo TU y yo, armor mid, lo escuchamos. 
 

 So that you will hear memo words sometimes grow things the tracks of the gulls on the beaches. Necklace, drunken bell for your hands smooth as grapes. And I watch my words from a long way off. They are more yours than mine. They climb on my old suffering like ivy. It climbs the same way on damp walls. You are to blame for this cruel sport. They are fleeing from my dark lair. You fill everything, you fill everything. Before you, they peopled the solitude that you occupy, and they are more used to my sadness than you are. Now I want them to say what I want to say to youth make you hear as I want you to hear me. The wind of anguish still hauls on them as usual. Sometimes hurricanes of dreams still knock them over. You listen to other voices in my painful voice. Lament of old mouths, blood of old supplications. Love me, companion. Don't forsake me. Follow me. Follow me, companion, on this wave of anguish. But my words become stained with your love. You occupy everything, you occupy everything. I am making them into an endless necklace for your white hands, smooth as grapes. 
 

 Matilda, years or days sleeping, feverish, here or there, gazing off, twisting my spine, bleeding true blood, perhaps I awaken or am lost, sleeping: hospital beds, foreign windows, white uniforms of the silent walkers, the clumsiness of feet. And then, these journeys and my sea of renewal: your head on the pillow, your hands floating in the light, in my light, over my earth. It was beautiful to live when you lived! The world is bluer and of the earth at night, when I sleep enormous, within your small hands. 
 

 Era El crepuscular DE la iguana. DESE la arcoirisada criteria SU league Como UN Dario SE India en la verdure, El hormiguero Monacan Pisa con melodies pie la Silva, El guano fine Como El oxygen en leis Anchal altars pandas IBA Zalando boats DE or, mantras la llama aria candid dojos en la delicate Del Munro Leno DE Rocco. Los' monos trenzaban UN Hilo interminablemente erotic en leis rib eras DE la aurora, derring-do euros DE pole y espantando El fuel Violet DE leis Mariposa DE Ouzo Era la niche DE Los caimans, la niche pure y ululate DE hoicks salient Del legato, y DE leis cinemas soñolientas UN Guido OPAC DE armatures Bolivia all origin terrestrial. El jaguar toccata leis Rojas con SU absence phosphorescence, El puma core en El damage Como El fuel decorator mantras Arden en El Los dojos alcoholics DE la Silva. Los Jones rascal lo spies Del Rio, human El Nido Cuba Felicia palpitate catamaran con dainties Rojas. Y en El fond Del Agra magma, Como El circle DE la Terra, ESTA la gig ante anaconda Alberta DE Barros rituals, decorator y religious. 
 

 Victory. It has come late, I had not parenthood to arrive, like the lily, at will, the white figure, that pierces the motionless eternity of earth, pushing at clear, faint, form, till the hour strikes: that clay, with a white ray, or a spur of milk. Shedding of clothing, the thick darkness of soil, on whose cliff the fair flower advances, till the flag of its whiteness defeats the contemptible deep of night, and, from the motion of light, spills itself in astonished seed. 
 

 Tell me, is the rose naked Or is that her only dress? Why do trees conceal splendor of their roots? Who hears the regrets the thieving automobile? Is there anything in the world sadderThan a train standing in the rain? 
 

 Y due an ESA dead... Lego la poetic a became. No SE, no SE DE done salvo, DE inferno o Rio. No SE Como NI candy, no, no era votes, no era palaces, NI silence, pro DESE RNA called me llama, DESE leis dramas DE la niche, DE pronto entire Los outros, entire fuels violent o regressed solo, all estate sin Costco y me toccata. Yo no Sabin Que decor, mi coca no Sabin number, MIS dojos era Diego, y also Goleta en me Alma, figure o alas periods, y me Food hacienda solo, descifrando quell quemadura, y describe la primer line saga, saga, sin Puerto, pure Monteria, pure sabiduría Del Que no same NASA, y vide pronto El Cairo desgranado y Alberto, planets, plantations palpitates, la samba Perforata, acribillada POR flèches, fuel y Flores, la niche arrolladora, El universe. Y yo, minima SER, Ebro Del gran radio Costello, a Smetana, an image Del Mister, me sent part pure Del Nabisco, rode con leis Estrella, mi Corazón SE DeSoto en El into. 
 

 Now Let's look for birds! The tall iron branches in the forest, The dense fertility on the ground. The world is wet. A dewdrop or raindrop shines, a diminutive star among the leaves. The morning time mother earth is cool. The air is like a river which shakes the silence. It smells of rosemary, of space and roots. Overhead, a crazy song. It's a bird. How out of its throat smaller than a finger can there fall the waters of its song? Luminous ease! Invisible power torrent of music in the leaves. Sacred conversations! Clean and fresh washed is this day resounding like a green dulcimer. I bury my shoes in the mud, jump over rivulets. A thorn bites me and a gust of air like a crystal wave splits up inside my chest. Where are the birds? Maybe it was that rustling in the foliage or that fleeting pellet of brown velvet or that displaced perfume? That leaf that let loose cinnamon smell — was that a bird? That dust from an irritated magnolia or that fruit which fell with a thump — was that a flight? Oh, invisible little critters birds of the devil with their ringing with their useless feathers. I only want to caress them, to see them resplendent. I don't want to see under glass the embalmed lightning. I want to see them living. I want to touch their gloves of real hide, which they never forget in the branches and to converse with them sitting on my shoulders although they may leave me like certain statues undeservedly whitewashed. Impossible. You can't touch them. You can hear them like a heavenly rustle or movement. They converse with precision. They repeat their observations. They brag of how much they do. They comment on everything that exists. They learn certain sciences like hydrography. And by a sure science they know where there are harvests of grain. 
 

 Castro Alves from Brazil, for whom did you sing? Did you sing for the flower? For the water whose beauty whispered words to the stones? Did you sing to the eyes, to the torn profile of the woman you once loved? For the spring? Yes, but those petals were not deed, those black waters had no words, those eyes were those who saw death, still burning the tortures behind love, Spring was splashed with blood. I sang for the slaves, aboard the ships as a dark branch of wrath. They travelled, and bled from the ships leaving us the weight of a stolen blood. I sang in those days against the inferno, against the sharp languages of greed, against the gold drenched in the torment, against the hand that rose the whip, against the maestros of darkness. Each rose had one dead man in their roots. The light, the night, the sky were covered in tears, the eyes separated from wounded handstand it was my voice the only one to fill the silence. I wanted that from the man we could be rescued, I believed that the route passed through the man, and from there destiny would be made. I sang for those who had no voice. My voice hit doors that until then were closed so that, fighting, Freedom could be let in. Castro Alves from Brazil, now that your pure books reborn to a free land, let me, poet of our America, to crown your head with the laurels of the people. Your voice joined the eternal and loud voice of the men. You sang well. You sang how it must be sung. 
 

 Lost in the forest, I broke off a dark twig and lifted its whisper to my thirsty lips:maybe it was the voice of the rain crying, a cracked bell, or a torn heart. Something from far off it seemed deep and secret to me, hidden by the earth, a shout muffled by huge autumns, by the moist half-open darkness of the leaves. Wakening from the dreaming forest there, the hazel-sprigsang under my tongue, its drifting fragrance climbed up through my conscious minds if suddenly the roots I had left behind cried out to me, the land I had lost with my childhood--and I stopped, wounded by the wandering scent. 
 

 The artichoke With a tender heart Dressed up like a warrior, Standing at attention, it built A small helmet Under its scales It remained Unshakable, By its side The crazy vegetables Uncurled Their tendrils and leaf-crowns, Throbbing bulbs, In the sub-soil The carrot With its red mustaches Was sleeping, The grapevine Hung out to dry its branches Through which the wine will rise, The cabbage Dedicated itself To trying on skirts, The oregano To perfuming the world, And the sweet Artichoke There in the garden, Dressed like a warrior, Burnished Like a proud Pomegranate. And one day Side by side In big wicker baskets Walking through the market To realize their dream The artichoke army In formation. Was Never it so military Like on parade. The men In their white shirts Among the vegetables Were The Marshals Of the artichokes Lines in close order Command voices, And the bang Of a falling box. But Then Maria Comes With her basket She chooses An artichoke, She's not afraid of it. She examines it, she observes it Up against the light like it was an egg, She buys it, She mixes it up In her purse With a pair of shoes With a cabbage head and a Bottle Of vinegar Until She enters the kitchen And submerges it in a pot. Thus ends In peace This career Of the armed vegetable Which is called an artichoke, Then Scale by scale, We strip off The delicacy And eat The peaceful mush Of its green heart. 
 

 To whoever is not listening to the sea this Friday morning, to whoever is cooped upon house or office, factory or woman or street or mine or harsh prison cell;to him I come, and, without speaking or looking, I arrive and open the door of his prison, and a vibration starts up, vague and insistent, a great fragment of thunder sets in motion the rumble of the planet and the foam, the raucous rivers of the ocean flood, the star vibrates swiftly in its corona, and the sea is beating, dying and continuing. So, drawn on by my destiny, I ceaselessly must listen to and keep the sea's lamenting in my awareness, I must feel the crash of the hard water and gather it up in a perpetual cups that, wherever those in prison may be, wherever they suffer the autumn's castigation, I may be there with an errant wave, I may move, passing through windows, and hearing me, eyes will glance upward saying 'How can I reach the sea?' And I shall broadcast, saying nothing, the starry echoes of the wave, a breaking up of foam and quicksand, a rustling of salt withdrawing, the gray cry of the sea-birds on the coast. So, through me, freedom and the seawall make their answer to the shuttered heart. 
 

 Mara More brought MEA pair of socks which she knitted herself with her sheepherder's hands, two socks as soft as rabbits. I slipped my feet into Thomas if they were two cases knitted with threads of twilight and goatskin, Violent socks, my feet were two fish made of wool, two long sharks sea blue, shot through by one golden thread, two immense blackbirds, two cannons, my feet were honored in this way by these heavenly socks. They were so handsome for the first timely feet seemed to me unacceptable like two decrepit firemen, firemen unworthy of that woven fire, of those glowing socks. Nevertheless, I resisted the sharp temptation to save them somewhere as schoolboys keep fireflies, as learned men collect sacred texts, I resisted the mad impulse to put the min a golden cage and each day give them birdseed and pieces of pink melon. Like explorers in the jungle who hand over the very rare green deer to the spit and eat it with remorse, I stretched out my feet and pulled on the magnificent socks and then my shoes. The moral of my ode is this:beauty is twice beauty and what is good is doubly good when it is a matter of two socks made of wool in winter. 
 

 Naked, you are simple as one of your hands, Smooth, earthy, small, transparent, round: You have moon lines, apple pathways: Naked, you are slender as a naked grain of wheat. Naked, you are blue as the night in Cuba; You have vines and stars in your hair; Naked, you are spacious and yellow As summer in a golden church. Naked, you are tiny as one of your nails, Curved, subtle, rosy, till the day is born And you withdraw to the underground world, as if down a long tunnel of clothing and of chores:Your clear light dims, gets dressed, drops its leaves, And becomes a naked hand again. 
 

 Tie your heart at night to mine, love, and both will defeat the darkness like twin drums beating in the forest against the heavy wall of wet leaves. Night crossing: black coal of dream that cuts the thread of earthly orbs with the punctuality of a headlong train that pulls cold stone and shadow endlessly. Love, because of it, tie me to a purer movement, to the grip on life that beats in your breast, with the wings of a submerged swan, So that our dream might reply to the sky's questioning stars with one key, one door closed to shadow. 
 

 Ocean, if you were to give, a measure, a ferment, a fruit of your gifts and destruction, into my hand, I would choose your far-off repose, your contour of steel, your vigilant spaces of air and darkness, and the power of your white tongue, that shatters and overthrows columns, breaking them down to your proper purity. Not the final breaker, heavy with brine, that thunders onshore, and creates the silence of sand, that encircles the world, but the inner spaces of force, the naked power of the waters, the immovable solitude, brimming with lives. It is Time perhaps, or the vessel filled with all motion, pure Oneness, that death cannot touch, the visceral green of consuming totality. Only a salt kiss remains of the drowned arm, that lifts a spray: a humid scent, of the damp flower, is left, from the bodies of men. Your energies form, in a trickle that is not spent, form, in retreat into silence. The falling wave, arch of identity, shattering feathers, is only spume when it clears, and returns to its source, unconsumed. Your whole force heads for its origin. The husks that your load threshes, are only the crushed, plundered, deliveries, that your act of abundance expelled, all those that take life from your branches. Your form extends beyond breakers, vibrant, and rhythmic, like the chest, cloaking single being, and its breathing, that lift into the content of light, plains raised above waves, forming the naked surface of earth. You fill your true self with your substance. You overflow curve with silence. The vessel trembles with your salt and sweetness, the universal cavern of waters, and nothing is lost from you, as it is from the desolate crater, or the bay of a hill, those empty heights, signs, scars, guarding the wounded air. Your petals throbbing against the Earth, trembling your submarine harvests, your menace thickening the smooth swell, with pulsations and swarming of schools, and only the thread of the net raises the dead lightning of fish-scale, one wounded millimeter, in the space of your crystal completeness. 
 

 Love, we're going home now, Where the vines clamber over the trellis:Even before you, the summer will arrive, On its honeysuckle feet, in your bedroom. Our nomadic kisses wandered over all the world:Armenia, dollop of disinterred honey:Ceylon, green dove: and the Yangtze with its old patience, dividing the day from the night. And now, dearest, we return, across the crackling alike two blind birds to their wall, To their nest in a distant spring:Because love cannot always fly without resting, Our lives return to the wall, to the rocks of the sea:Our kisses head back home where they belong. 
 

 Ancient night and the unruly salt beat at the walls of my house. The shadow is all one, the sky throbs now along with the ocean, and sky and shadow eruption the crash of their vast conflict. All night long they struggle;nobody knows the name of the harsh light that keeps slowly opening like a languid fruit. So on the coast comes to light, out of seething shadow, the harsh dawn, gnawed at by the moving salt, swept clean by the mass of night, bloodstained in its sea-washed crater. 
 

 Our Father thou art in Heaven, in water, in again all our silent and broad latitude everything bears your name, Father in our dwelling: your name raises sweetness in sugar cane Bolivar tin has a Bolivar gleam the Bolívar bird flies over the Bolivar volcano the potato, the saltpeter, the special shadows, the brooks, the phosphorous stone veins everything comes from your extinguished life your legacy was rivers, plains, bell towers your legacy is our daily bread, oh Father. 
 

 I like for you to be still it is as though you are absented you hear me from far away my voice does not touch you it seems as though your eyes had flown away it seems that a kiss had sealed your mouths all things are filled with my solo emerge from the thingsFilled with my solo are like my soul butterfly of dreamland you are like the word: Melancholy like for you to be Spillane you seem far await sounds as though you are lamenting butterfly cooing like a Loveland you hear me from far away my voice does not reach outlet me come to be still in your silenced let me talk to you with your silenceThat is bright as a lampSimple, as a Ringo are like the nightlife its stillness and constellationsYour silence is that of a stars remote and candid like for you to be still it is as though you are absentDistant and full of sorrows you would've redone word then, One smile is England I'm happy;Happy that it's not true 
 

 I like you calm, as if you were absent, and you hear me far-off, and my voice does not touch you. It seems that your eyelids have taken to flying:it seems that a kiss has sealed up your mouth. Since all these things are filled with my spirit, you come from things, filled with my spirit. You appear as my soul, as the butterfly’s dreaming, and you appear as Sadness’s word. I like you calm, as if you were distant, you are a moaning, a butterfly’s cooing. You hear me far-off, my voice does not reach you. Let me be calmed, then, calmed by your silence. Let me commune, then, commune with your silence, clear as a light, and pure as a ring. You are like night, calmed, castellated. Your silence is star-like, as distant, as true. I like you calm, as if you were absent:distant and saddened, as if you were dead. One word at that moment, a smile, is sufficient. And I thrill, then, I thrill: that it cannot be so.XV From:’ Dante poems DE armor’I like you calm, as if you were absent, and you hear me far-off, and my voice does not touch you. It seems that your eyelids have taken to flying:it seems that a kiss has sealed up your mouth. Since all these things are filled with my spirit, you come from things, filled with my spirit. You appear as my soul, as the butterfly’s dreaming, and you appear as Sadness’s word. I like you calm, as if you were distant, you are a moaning, a butterfly’s cooing. You hear me far-off, my voice does not reach you. Let me be calmed, then, calmed by your silence. Let me commune, then, commune with your silence, clear as a light, and pure as a ring. You are like night, calmed, castellated. Your silence is star-like, as distant, as true. I like you calm, as if you were absent:distant and saddened, as if you were dead. One word at that moment, a smile, is sufficient. And I thrill, then, I thrill: that it cannot be so. 
 

 The weary one, orphan of the masses, the self, the crushed one, the one made of concrete, the one without a country in crowded restaurants, he who wanted to go far away, always farther away, didn't know what to do there, whether he wanted or didn't want to leave or remain on the island, the hesitant one, the hybrid, entangled in himself, had no place here: the straight-angled stone, the infinite look of the granite prism, the circular solitude all banished him:he went somewhere else with his sorrows, he returned to the agony of his native land, to his indecision, of winter and summer. 
 

 March days return with their covert light, and huge fish swim through the sky, vague earthly vapors progress in secret, things slip to silence one by one. Through fortuity, at this crisis of errant skies, you reunite the lives of the sea to that of fire, grey lurching of the ship of winter to the form that love carved in the guitar. O love, O rose soaked by mermaids and spume, dancing flame that climbs the invisible stairway, to waken the blood in insomnia’s labyrinth, so that the waves can complete themselves in the sky, the sea forget its cargoes and rages, and the world fall into darkness’s nets. 
 

 The Queen have named you queen. There are taller than you, taller. There are purer than you, purer. There are lovelier than you, lovelier. But you are the queen. When you go through the streets No one recognizes you. No one sees your crystal crown, no one looks At the carpet of red Goldman you tread as you pass, The nonexistent carpet. And when you apparel the rivers sounding my body, bellsShake the sky, And a hymn fills the world. Only you and I, Only you and I, my love, Listen to me.------------------------Yo the he Colorado ran. Hay MAS altar Que TU, MAS altar. Hay MAS auras Que TU, MAS auras. Hay MAS bells Que TU, hay MAS bells. Pro TU airs la ran. Candy was POR leis calls Nadia the economy. Nadia ve TU corona DE crystal, Nadia Mira la Alhambra DE or Tojo Que visas done pass, la Alhambra Que no exist. Y candy aromas Sean to-dos Los Rios en mi Puerto, acumen El Cairo leis Campinas, y UN him no Elena El Mundo. Solo TU y yo, solo TU y yo, armor mid, lo escuchamos. 
 

 Things get broken at home like they were pushed by an invisible, deliberate smasher. It's not my hands or yours It wasn't the girls with their hard fingernails or the motion of the planet. It wasn't anything or anybody It wasn't the wind It wasn't the orange-colored noontime Or night over the earth It wasn't even the nose or the elbow Or the hips getting bigger or the ankle or the air. The plate broke, the lamp fell All the flower pots tumbled over one by one. That pot which overflowed with scarlet in the middle of October, it got tired from all the violets and another empty one rolled round and round and round all through winter until it was only the powder of a flowerpot, a broken memory, shining dust. And that clock whose sound was the voice of our lives, the secret thread of our weeks, which released one by one, so many hours for honey and silence for so many births and jobs, that clock also fell and its delicate blue guts vibrated among the broken glass its wide heart unstrung. Life goes on grinding up glass, wearing out clothes making fragments breaking down forms and what lasts through time is like an island on a ship in the sea, perishable surrounded by dangerous fragility by merciless waters and threats. Let's put all our treasures together -- the clocks, plates, cups cracked by the cold -- into a sack and carry them to the sea and let our possessions sink into one alarming breaker that sounds like a river. May whatever breaks be reconstructed by the sea with the long labor of its tides. So many useless things which nobody broke but which got broken anyway. 
 

 When your hands leap towards mine, love, what do they bring me in flight? Why did they stoat my lips, so suddenly, why do I know them, as if once before, I have touched them, as if, before being, they travelled forehead, my waist? Their smoothness came winging through time, over the sea and the smoke, over the Spring, and when you laid your hands on my chest knew those wings of the gold doves, I knew that clay, and that color of grain. The years of my life have been roadways of searching, a climbing of stairs, a crossing of reefs. Trains hurled me onwardswaters recalled me, on the surface of grape sit seemed that I touched you. Wood, of a sudden, made contact with you, the almond-tree summoned your hidden smoothness, until both your hands closed on my chest, like a pair of wing sending their flight. 
 

 Lovely one, Just as on the cool stone the spring, the watersheds a wide flash of foam, So is the smile of your face, Lovely one. Lovely one, With delicate hands and slender sheetlike a silver pony, Walking, flower of the world, Thus I see you, Lovely one. Lovely one, With a nest of copper entangled your head, a nettle color of dark anywhere my heart burns and rests, Lovely one. Lovely one, Your eyes are too big for your face, Your eyes are too big for the earth. There are countries, there are rivers, In your eyes, My country is your eyes, I walk through them, They light the walkthrough which I walk, Lovely one. Lovely one, Your breasts are like two loaves made grainy earth and golden moon, Lovely one. Lovely one, Your waist, My arm shaped it like a river when It flowed a thousand years through your sweet body, Lovely one. Lovely one, There is nothing like your hips, Perhaps earth basin some hidden placate curve and the fragrance of your body, Perhaps in some place, Lovely one. Lovely one, my lovely one, Your voice, your skin, your nails, Lovely one, my lovely one, Your being, your light, your shadow, Lovely one, All that is mine, lovely one, All that is mine, my dear, When you walk or rest, When you sing or sleep, When you suffer or dream, Always,When you are near or far, Always,You are mine, my lovely one, Always. 
 

 Neither the heart cut by a piece of glassing a wasteland of thorns nor the atrocious waters seen in the corners of certain houses, waters like eyelids and eye scan capture your waist in my hands when my heart lifts its oaks towards your unbreakable thread of snow. Nocturnal sugar, spirit of the crowns, ransomedhuman blood, your kisses send into exile and a stroke of water, with remnants of the sea, neats on the silences that wait for you surrounding the worn chairs, wearing outdoors. Nights with bright spindles, divided, material, nothing but voice, nothing but naked every day. Over your breasts of motionless current, over your legs of firmness and water, over the permanence and the pride of your naked here want to be, my love, now that the tears arethrowninto the raucous baskets where they accumulate, I want to be, my love, alone with a syllable of mangled silver, alone with a tip of your breast of snow. 
 

 Neither clown nor child nor black nor white but Periclean a questioning innocence dressed in night and snow:The mother smiles at the sailor, the fisherman at the astronaut, but the child does not smile when he looks at the bird child, and from the disorderly ocean the immaculate passenger emerges in snowy mourning. I was without doubt the child bird there in the cold archipelagoeswhen it looked at me with its eyes, with its ancient ocean eyes:it had neither arms nor wings but hard little Carson its sides:it was as old as the salt;the age of moving water, and it looked at me from its age:since then I know I do not exist;I am a worm in the sand.the reasons for my respect remained in the sand:the religious bird did not need to fly, did not need to sing, and through its form was visible its wild soul bled salt:as if a vein from the bitter sea had been broken. Penguin, static traveler, deliberate priest of the cold, I salute your vertical salt and envy your plumed pride. 
 

 Lost in the forest, I broke off a dark twig and lifted its whisper to my thirsty lips:maybe it was the voice of the rain crying, a cracked bell, or a torn heart. Something from far off it seemed deep and secret to me, hidden by the earth, a shout muffled by huge autumns, by the moist half-open darkness of the leaves. Wakening from the dreaming forest there, the hazel-sprigsang under my tongue, its drifting fragrance climbed up through my conscious minds if suddenly the roots I had left behind cried out to me, the land I had lost with my childhood---and I stopped, wounded by the wandering scent. 
 

 What it takes on this planet, to make love to each other in peace. Everyone pries under your sheets, everyone interferes with your loving. They say terrible things about a man and a woman, who after much milling about, all sorts of compunctions, do something unique, they both lie with each other in one bed. I ask myself whether frogs are so furtive, or sneeze as they please. Whether they whisper to each other in swamps about illegitimate frogs, or the joys of amphibious living. I ask myself if birds single out enemy birds, or bulls gossip with bullocks before they go out in public with cows. Even the roads have eyes and the parks their police. Hotels spy on their guests, windows name names, canons and squadrons debark on missions to liquidate love. All those ears and those jaws working incessantly, till a man and his girl have to raise their climax, full tilt, on a bicycle. 
 

 If your eyes were not the color of the moon, of a day full [here, interrupted by the baby waking -- continued about 26hours later]of a day full of clay, and work, and fire, if even held-in you did not move in agile grace like the air, if you were not an amber week, not the yellow moment when autumn climbs up through the vines;if you were not that bread the fragrant moon kneads, sprinkling its flour across the sky, oh, my dearest, I could not love you so! But when I hold you I hold everything that is --sand, time, the tree of the rain, everything is alive so that I can be alive:without moving I can see it all:in your life I see everything that lives. 
 

 America, from a grain of maize you grew to crown with spacious lands the ocean foam. A grain of maize was your geography. From the grain green lance rose, was covered with gold, to grace the heights of Peru with its yellow tassels. But, poet, let history rest in its shroud;praise with your lyre the grain in its granaries:sing to the simple maize in the kitchen. First, a fine beard fluttered in the field above the tender teeth of the young ear. Then the husks parted and fruitfulness burst its veils of pale papyrus that grains of laughter might fall upon the earth. To the stone, in your journey, you returned. Not to the terrible stone, the bloody triangle of Mexican death, but to the grinding stone, sacredstone of your kitchens. There, milk and matter, strength-giving, nutritious cornmeal pulp, you were worked and patted by the wondrous hands of dark-skinned women. Wherever you fall, maize, whether into the splendid pot of partridge, or among country beans, you light up the meal and lend it your virginal flavor. Oh, to bite into the steaming ear beside the sea of distant song and deepest waltz. To boil yours your aroma spreads through blue sierras. But is thereon end to your treasure? In chalky, barren landsborderedby the sea, along the rocky Chilean coast, at times only your radiance reaches the empty table of the miner. Your light, your cornmeal, your hope pervades America's solitude, and to hunger your lances are enemy legions. Within your husks, like gentle kernels, our sober provincial children's hearts were nurtured, until life began to shuck us from the ear. 
 

 Among the market greens, a bullet from the ocean depths, a swimming projectile, I saw you, dead. All around you were lettuces, sea foam of the earth, carrots,grapes, butof the ocean truth, of the unknown, of theunfathomableshadow, the depths of the sea, the abyss, only you had survived, a pitch-black, varnishedwitnessto the deepest night. Only you, well-aimeddark bullet from the abyss, mangledat one tip, but constantly reborn, at anchor in the current, winged finswindmillingin the swiftflightof themarineshadow, a mourning arrow, dart of the sea, olive, oily fish. I saw you dead, a deceased king of my own ocean, greenassault, silver submarine fir, seedof sea quakes, nowonly dead remains, yetin all the marketyourswas the only purposeful form amid the bewildering rout of nature;amid the fragile greens you were a solitary ship, armedamong the vegetables fin and prow black and oiled, as if you were still the vessel of the wind, the one and only pure ocean machine:unflawed, navigating the waters of death. 
 

 Don't go far off, not even for a day, because -- because -- I don't know how to say it: a day is long and I will be waiting for you, as in an empty station when the trains are parked off somewhere else, asleep. Don't leave me, even for an hour, because then the little drops of anguish will all run together, the smoke that roams looking for a home will drift into me, choking my lost heart. Oh, may your silhouette never dissolve on the beach; may your eyelids never flutter into the empty distance. Don't leave me for a second, my dearest, because At that moment you'll have gone so far I'll wander lazily over all the earth, asking, Will you come back? Will you leave me here, dying? 
 

 It so happens I am sick of being a man. And it happens that I walk into tailor shops and movie houses dried up, waterproof, like a swan made of felt steering my way in water of wombs and ashes. The smell of barbershops makes me break into hoarse sobs. The only thing I want is to lie still like stones or wool. The only thing I want is to see no more stores, no gardens, no more goods, no spectacles, no elevators. It so happens that I am sick of my feet and my nail sand my hair and my shadow. It so happens I am sick of being a man.Still, it would be marvelous to terrify a law clerk with a cut lily, or kill a nun with a blow on the ear. It would be great to go through the streets with a green knife letting out yells until I died of the cold. I don't want to go on being a root in the dark, insecure, stretched out, shivering with sleep, going on down, into the moist guts of the earth, taking in and thinking, eating every day. I don't want so much misery. I don't want to go on as a root and a tomb, alone under the ground, a warehouse with corpses, half frozen, dying of grief. That's why Monday, when it sees me coming with my convict face, blazes up like gasoline, and it howls on its way like a wounded wheel, and leaves tracks full of warm blood leading toward the night. And it pushes me into certain corners, into some moist houses, into hospitals where the bones fly out the window, into shoe shops that smell like vinegar, and certain streets hideous as cracks in the skin. There are sulphur-colored birds, and hideous intestines hanging over the doors of houses that I hate, and there are false teeth forgotten in a coffeepot, there are mirrors that ought to have wept from shame and terror, there are umbrellas everywhere, and venom, and umbilical cords. I stroll along serenely, with my eyes, my shoes, my rage, forgetting everything, I walk by, going through office buildings and orthopedic shops, and courtyards with washing hanging from the line:underwear, towels and shirts from which slow dirty tears are falling. Translated by Robert Bly. 
 

 I do not love you as if you were salt-rose, or topaz, or the arrow of carnations the fire shoots off. I love you as certain dark things are to be loved, in secret, between the shadow and the soul. I love you as the plant that never blooms but carries in itself the light of hidden flowers; thanks to your love a certain solid fragrance, risen from the earth, lives darkly in my body. I love you without knowing how, or when, or from where. I love you straightforwardly, without complexities or pride; so I love you because I know no other way than this: where I do not exist, nor you, so close that your hand on my chest is my hand, so close that your eyes close as I fall asleep. 
 

 Here I love you. In the dark pines the wind disentangles itself. The moon glows like phosphorous on the vagrant waters. Days, all one kind, go chasing each other. The snow unfurls in dancing figures. A silver gull slips down from the west.Sometimes a sail. High, high stars. Oh, the black cross of a ship. Alone. Sometimes I get up early and even my soul is wet. Far away the sea sounds and resounds. This is a port. Here I love you. Here I love you and the horizon hides you in vain. I love you still among these cold things. Sometimes my kisses go on those heavy vessels that cross the sea towards no arrival. I see myself forgotten like those old anchors. The piers sadden when the afternoon moors there. My life grows tired, hungry to no purpose. I love what I do not have. You are so far. My loathing wrestles with the slow twilight. But night comes and starts to sing to me. The moon turns its clockwork dream. The biggest stars look at me with your eyes. And as I love you, the pines in the wind want to sing your name with their leaves of wire. 
 

 O tower of light, sad beauty that magnified necklaces and statues in the sea, calcareous eye, insignia of the vast waters, cry of the mourning petrel, tooth of the sea, wife of the Oceanian wind, O separate rose from the long stem of the trampled bush that the depths, converted into archipelago, O natural star, green diadem, alone in your lonesome dynasty, still unattainable, elusive, desolate like one drop, like one grape, like the sea. 
 

 There are lone cemeteries, tombs full of soundless bones, the heart threading a tunnel, a dark, dark tunnel : like a wreck we die to the very core, as if drowning at the hereto collapsing inwards from skin to soul. There are corpses, clammy slabs for feet, there is death in the bones, like a pure sound, a bark without its dog, out of certain bells, certain tombs swelling in this humidity like lament or rain. I see, when alone at times, coffins under sail setting out with the pale dead, women in their dead braids, bakers as white as angels, thoughtful girls married to notaries, coffins ascending the vertical river of the dead, the wine-dark river to its source, with their sails swollen with the sound of death, filled with the silent noise of death. Death is drawn to soundalike a slipper without a foot, a suit without its wearer, comes to knock with a ring, toneless and fingerless, comes to shout without a mouth, a tongue, without a throat.Nevertheless, its footsteps sound and its clothes echo, hushed like a tree. I do not know, I am ignorant, I hardly see but it seems to me that its song has the color of wet violets, violets well-used to the earth, since the face of death is green, and the gaze of death Greenwich the etched moisture of a violet's leaf and its grave color of exasperated winter. But death goes about the earth also, riding a broom lapping the ground in search of the dead — death is in the broom, it is the tongue of death looking for the dead, the needle of death looking for the thread. Death lies in our beds : in the lazy mattresses, the black blankets, lives a full stretch and then suddenly blows, blows sound unknown filling out the sheet sand there are beds sailing into a harbor where death is waiting, dressed as an admiral. 
 

 When I close a book open life. I hear faltering cries among harbors. Copper ignotsslide down sandpits Tortilla.Nighttime. Among the island sour ocean throbs with fish, touches the feet, the thighs, the chalk ribs of my country. The whole of night clings to its shores, by dawn it wakes up singing as if it had excited a guitar. The ocean's surge is calling. The windfalls mean Rodriguez calls, and Jose Antonio--I got a telegram from the “Mine” Union and the one I love(whose name I won't let out)expects me in Buckley. No book has been able to wrap me in paper, to fill me up with typography, with heavenly imprints or was ever able to bind my eyes, I come out of books to people orchards with the hoarse family of my song, to work the burning metals or to eat smoked beefy mountain firesides. I love adventurous books, books of forest or snow, depth or sky but hate the spider book in which thought has laid poisonous wires to trap the juvenile and circling fly. Book, let me go. I won't go clothe din volumes, I don't come out of collected works, my poem shave not eaten poems--they devour exciting happenings, feed on rough weather, and dig their foldout of earth and men. I'm on my way with dust in my shoes free of mythology:send books back to their shelves, I'm going down into the streets. I learned about life from life itself, love I learned in a single kiss and could teach no one anything except that I have lived with something in common among men, when fighting with them, when saying all their say in my song. 
 

 I remember you as you were in the last autumn. You were the gray beret and the still heart. In your eyes the flames of the twilight fought on. And the leaves fell in the water of your soul. Clasping my arms like a climbing plant the leaves garnered your voice, that was slow and at peace. Bonfire of awe in which my thirst was burning. Sweet blue hyacinth twisted over my soul. I feel your eyes traveling, and the autumn is far off:Grey beret, voice of a bird, heart like a housewares which my deep longings migrated my kisses fell, happy as embers. Sky from a ship. Field from the hills:Your memory is made of light, of smoke, of a still pond! Beyond your eyes, farther on, the evenings were blazing. Dry autumn leaves revolved in your soul. 
 

 This satin the salt cellar once saw in the salt mines. I know you won'tbelieve debut sings salt sings, the skin of the salt minessingswith a mouth smothered by the earth. I shivered in thosesolitudeswhen I heard the voiceofthe salt in the desert. Near Antofagasta the nitrouspamparesounds:broken nice, a mournful song. In its caves the salt moans, mountain of buried light, translucent cathedral, crystal of the sea, oblivion of the waves. And then on every tablas the world, salt,we see your piquantpowdersprinklingvital lightuponour food. Preserver of the ancient holds of ships, discovereronthe high seas, earliestsailorof the unknown, shifting byways of the foam. Dust of the sea, in youth tongue receives a kiss from ocean night:taste imparts to every seasoned dish your ocean essence; the smallest, miniaturewave from the saltcellar reveals to us more than domestic whiteness; in it, we taste infinitude.  
 

 An odor has remained among the sugarcane:a mixture of blood and body, a penetrating petal that brings nausea. Between the coconut palms the graves are full of ruined bones, of speechless death-rattles. The delicate dictator is talking with top hats, gold braid, and collars. The tiny palace gleams like a watchband the rapid laughs with gloves uncross the corridors at time sand join the dead voice sand the blue mouths freshly buried. The weeping cannot be seen, like a plant whose seeds fall endlessly on the earth, whose large blind leaves grow even without light. Hatred has grown scale on scale, blow on blow, in the ghastly water of the swamp, with a snout full of ooze and silence. 
 

 Little rose, roselet, at times, tiny and naked, it seems as though you would ITIN one of my hands, as though I’ll clasp you like this and carry you to my mouth, butsuddenlymy feet touch your feet and my mouth your lips:you have grown, your shoulders rise like two hills, your breasts wander over my breast, my arm scarcely manages to encircle the thinnew-moon line of your waist:in love you loosened yourself like seawater:I can scarcely measure the sky’s most spacious eye sand I lean down to your mouth to kiss the earth. 
 

 You swallowed everything, like distance. Like the sea, like time. In you everything sank! It was the happy hour of assault and the kiss. The hour of the spell that blazed like a lighthouse. Pilot's dread, fury of a blind diver, turbulent drunkenness of love, in you everything sank! 
 

 It’s good to feel you are close to me in the night, love, invisible in your sleep, intently nocturnal, while I untangle my worries as if they were twisted nets. Withdrawn, your heart sails through dream, but your body, relinquished so, breathes seeking me without seeing me perfecting my dreamlike a plant that seeds itself in the dark. Rising, you will be that other, alive in the dawn, but from the frontiers lost in the night, from the presence and the absence where we meet ourselves, something remains, drawing us into the light of lifers if the sign of the shadows had seal edits secret creatures with flame. 
 

 I crave your mouth, your voice, your hair. Silent and starving, I prowl through the streets. Bread does not nourish me, dawn disrupts me, all day hunt for the liquid measure of your steps. I hunger for your sleek laugh, your hands the color of a savage harvest, hunger for the pale stones of your fingernails, I want to eat your skin like a whole almond. I want to eat the sunbeam flaring in your lovely body, the sovereign nose of your arrogant face, I want to eat the fleeting shade of your lashes, and I pace around hungry, sniffing the twilight, hunting for you, for your hot heart, like a puma in the barrens of Nitrate. 
 

 The light wraps you in its mortal flame. Abstracted pale mourner, standing that way against the old propellers of the highlight that revolves around you. Speechless, my friend, alone in the loneliness of this hour of the dead and filled with the lives of fire, pure heir of the ruined day. A bough of fruit falls from the sun on your dark garment. The great roots of night grow suddenly from your soul, and the things that hide in you come out again so that a blue and palled people your newly born, takes nourishment. Oh, magnificent and fecund and magnetic slave of the circle that moves in turn through black and gold: rise, lead and possess a creation so rich in life that its flowers perish and it is full of sadness. 
 

 I have scarcely left you When you go in me, crystalline, Or trembling, Or uneasy, wounded by Moor overwhelmed with love, ashen your eyes Close upon the gift of lifeboat without cease I give you. My love, We have found each otherThirsty, and we have Drunk up all the water and blood, We found each otherHungry And we bit each others fire bites, Leaving wounds in us. But wait for me, Keep for me your sweetness. I will give you to A rose. 
 

 You are the daughter of the sea, oregano's first cousin. Swimmer, your body is pure as the water;cook, your blood is quick as the soil. Everything you do is full of flowers, rich with the earth. Your eyes go out toward the water, and the waves rise;your hands go out to the earth and the seeds swell;you know the deep essence of water and the earth, conjoined in you like a formula for clay. Naiad: cut your body into turquoise pieces, they will bloom resurrected in the kitchen. This is how you become everything that lives. And so at last, you sleep, in the circle of my arms that push back the shadows so that you can rest--vegetables, seaweed, herbs: the foam of your dreams. Translated by Stephen Scott Submitted by Hen. 
 

 If suddenly you do not exist, if suddenly you no longer live, I shall live on. I do not dare, I do not dare to write it, if you die. I shall live on. For where a man has no voice, there, my voice. Where blacks are beaten, I cannot be dead. When my brothers go to prison shall go with them. When victory, not my victory, but the great victory comes, even though I am mute I must speak; I shall see it come even though I am blind. No, forgive me. If you no longer live, if you, beloved, my love, if you have died, all the leaves will fall in my breast, it will rain on my soul night and day, the snow will burn my heart, I shall walk with frost and fire and death and snow, my feet will want to walk to where you are sleeping, but shall stay alive, because above all things you wanted me indomitable, and, my love, because you know that I am not only a man but all mankind. 
 

 I crave your mouth, your voice, your hair. Silent and starving, I prowl through the streets. Bread does not nourish me, dawn disrupts me, all day hunt for the liquid measure of your steps. I hunger for your sleek laugh, your hands the color of a savage harvest, hunger for the pale stones of your fingernails, I want to eat your skin like a whole almond. I want to eat the sunbeam flaring in your lovely body, the sovereign nose of your arrogant face, I want to eat the fleeting shade of your lashes, and I pace around hungry, sniffing the twilight, hunting for you, for your hot heart, like a puma in the barrens of Nitrate. Translated by Stephen Tapscott. 
 

 Puerto describer Los versos MAS tribes ESTA niche. Escribir, POR example: 'La niche ESTA Estrella, y Tibetan, azures, Los actors, a lo Leos.' El into DE la niche girl en El Cairo y Santa. Puedo describer Los versos MAS tribes ESTA niche. Yo la quite, y a vices Ella ambient me Quito. En leis niches Como ESTA la tube entire MIS Brazos. La best Qantas vices banjo El Cairo infinite. Ella me Quito, a vices yo ambient la query. Cómo no Haber Amado SUS grand dojos films. Puedo describer Los versos MAS tribes ESTA niche. Pensar Que no la tango. Sent Que la he per dido. Oir la niche intense, MAS inanest sin Ella. Y El verso CAE all Alma Como all past El Rocco. Qué import Que mi armor no pudgier Gadara. La niche ESTA Estrella y Ella no ESTA Congo. Eso BS to-do. A lo Leos alien Santa. A lo Leos. Mi Alma no SE content con Haber per dido. Como para Certara mi Miranda la Busch. Mi Corazón la Busch, y Ella no ESTA Congo. La miasma niche Que have language Los miss roles. Nosotros, Los DE sentences, ya no solos Los miss. Ya no la fewer, BS Cairo, pro canto la quite. Mi VOZ Busch El into para to car SU Dido. De Otto. Era DE Otto. Como antes DE MIS pesos. Su VOZ, SU Puerto Clark. SUS dojos infinite. Ya no la fewer, BS Cairo, pro tail viz la fewer. Es tan Porto El armor, yes tan largo El Ovid. Porque en niches Como ESTA la tube entire MIS Brazos, mi Alma no SE content con Haber per dido. Aunque ester sea El ultimo dolor Que Ella me cause, y Estes Sean Los ultimo versos Que yo LE describe. 
 

 Day-colored wine, night-colored wine, wine with purple fee tor wine with topaz blood, wine,starry child of earth, wine, smooths a golden sword, softas lascivious velvet, wine, spiral-seashelledand full of wonder, amorous,marine;never has one goblet contained you, one song, one man, you are choral, gregarious, at the least, you must be shared. At times you feed on mortal memories;your wave carries us from tomb to tomb, stonecutter of icy sepulchers, and we weep transitory tears;yourgloriousspring dresses different, blood rises through the shoots, wind incites the day, nothing is left of your immutable soul. Winestirs the spring, happiness bursts through the earth like a plant, walls crumble, and rocky cliffs, chasms close, as song is born. A jug of wine, and thou beside man the wilderness, sang the ancient poet.Let the wine pitcher add to the kiss of love its own. My darling, suddenly the line of your hip becomes the brimming curve of the wine goblet, your breast is the grape cluster, your nipples are the grapes, the gleam of spirits lights your hair, and your navel is a chaste seal stamped on the vessel of your belly, your love an inexhaustible cascade of wine, light that illuminates my senses, the earthly splendor of life. But you are more than love, the fiery kiss, the heat of fire, more than the wine of life;you earth community of man, translucency,chorus of discipline, abundance of flowers. I like on the table, when we're speaking, the light of a bottle of intelligent wine. Drink it, and remember in every drop of gold, in every topaz glass, in every purple ladle, that autumn labored to fill the vessel with wine;and in the ritual of his office, let the simple man remember to think of the soil and of his duty, to propagate the canticle of the wine. 
 

 Leaning into the afternoons I cast my sad nets towards your oceanic eyes. There in the highest blaze my solitude lengthens and flames, its arms turning like a drowning man's. I send out red signals across your absent eyes that smell like the sea or the beach by a lighthouse. You keep only darkness, my distant female, from your regard sometimes the coast of dread emerges. Leaning into the afternoons I fling my sad nets to that sea that is thrashed by your oceanic eyes. The birds of night peck at the first stars that flash like my soul when I love you. The night gallops on its shadowy mare shedding blue tassels over the land. 
 

 Of the many men whom I am, whom we are, I cannot settle on a single one. They are lost to me under the cover of clothingThey have departed for another city. When everything seems to be SEATO show me off as a man of intelligence, the fool I keep concealed on my person takes over my talk and occupies my mouth. On other occasions, I am dozing in the midst of people of some distinction, and when I summon my courageous self, a coward completely unknown to me swaddles my poor skeleton in a thousand tiny reservations. When a stately home bursts into flames, instead of the fireman I summon, an arsonist bursts on the scene, and he is I. There is nothing I can do. What must I do to distinguish myself? How can I put myself together? All the books I read lionize dazzling hero figures, brimming with self-assurance. I die with envy of them;and, in films where bullets fly on the wind, I am left in envy of the cowboys, left admiring even the horses. But when I call upon my DASHING BEING,outcomes the same OLD LAZY SELF, and so I never know just WHO I AM, nor how many I am, nor WHO WE WILL BE BEING. I would like to be able to touch a Welland call up my real self, the truly me, because if I really need my proper self, I must not allow myself to disappear. While I am writing, I am far away;and when I come back, I have already left. I should like to see if the same thing happens to other people as it does to me, to see if as many people are as I am, and if they seem the same way to themselves. When this problem has been thoroughly explored, I am going to school myself so well in things that, when I try to explain my problems, I shall speak, not of self, but of geography. 
 

 Fleas interest me so much that I let them bite me for hours. They are perfect, ancient, Sanskrit, machines that admit of no appeal. They do not bite to eat, they bite only to jump;they are the dancers of the celestial sphere, delicate acrobat sin the softest and most profound circus;let them gallop on my skin, divulge their emotions, amuse themselves with my blood, but someone should introduce them to me. I want to know them closely, I want to know what to rely on. 
 

 Love, a question has destroyed you. I have come back to you from thorny uncertainty. I want you straight Ashe sword or the road. But you insist on keeping a nook of shadow that I do not want. My love, understand me, I love all of you, from eyes to feet, to toenails, inside,all the brightness, which you kept. It is I, my love, who knocks at your door. It is not the ghost, it is not the one who once stopped at your window. I knock down the door:I enter your life:I come to live in your soul:you cannot cope with me. You must open door to door, you must obey me, you must open your eyes so that I may search in them, you must see how I walk with heavy steps along all the roads that, blind, were waiting for me. Do not fear, I am yours, butI am not the passenger or the beggar, I am your master, the one you were waiting for, and now I enter your life, no more to leave it, love, love, love, but to stay. 
 

 In the wave-strike over unquiet stones the brightness bursts and bears the Rostand the ring of water contracts to a cluster to one drop of azure brine that falls. O magnolia radiance breaking in spume, magnetic voyager whose death flower sand returns, eternal, to being and nothingness:shattered brine, dazzling leap of the ocean. Merged, you and I, my love, seal the silence while the sea destroys its continual forms, collapses its turrets of wildness and whiteness, because in the weft of those unseen garments of headlong water, and perpetual sand, we bear the sole, relentless tenderness. 
 

 Everything on the earth bristled, the bramble pricked and the green thread nibbled away, the petal fell, falling until the only flower was the falling itself. Water is another matter, has no direction but its own bright grace, runs through all imaginable colors, takes limpid lessons from stone, and in those functioning plays out the unrealized ambitions of the foam. 
 

 Before I loved you, love, nothing was my own: I wavered through the streets, amongObjects: Nothing mattered or had a name: The world was made of air, which waited. I knew rooms full of ashes, Tunnels where the moon lived, Rough warehouses that growled 'get lost', Questions that insisted in the sand. Everything was empty, dead, mute, Fallen abandoned, and decayed: Inconceivably alien, it belonged to someone else — to no one: Till your beauty and your overfilled the autumn plentiful with gifts. 
 

 I am not jealous of what came before me. Come with a Manon your shoulders, come with a hundred men in your hair, come with a thousand men between your breasts and your feet, come like a river full of drowned men which flows down to the wild sea, to the eternal surf, to Time! Bring them alto where I am waiting for you;we shall always be alone, we shall always be you and Alone on earth, to start our life! 
 

 Perhaps not to be is to be without your being, without your going, that cuts noon lifelike a blue flower, without your passing later through fog and stones, without the torch you lift in your hand that others may not see as golden, that perhaps no one believed blossomed the glowing origin of the rose, without, in the end, you're being, your coming suddenly, inspiring, to know my life, blaze of the rose-tree, wheat of the breeze:and it follows that I am, because you are:it follows from ‘you are’, that I am, and we:and, because of love, you will, I will, We will, come to be. 
 

 III. Tell me, is the rose naked or is that her only dress? Why do trees conceal the splendor of their roots? Who hears the regrets of the thieving automobile? Is there anything in the world sadder than a train standing in the rain? 
 

 The young Marines and the horny mustaches, The big fat widows delirious from insomnia, The young wives thirty hours' pregnant, And the hoarse tomcats that cross my garden at night, Like a collar of palpitating sexual oystersSurround my solitary home, Enemies of my soul, Conspirators in pajamas exchange deep kisses for passwords. Radiant summer brings out the lovers In melancholy regiments, Fat and thin and happy and sad couples;Under the elegant coconut palms, near the ocean and moon, There is a continual life of pants and panties, A hum from the fondling of silk stockings, And women's breasts that glisten like eyes. The salary man, after a while, After the week's tedium, and the novels read in bed at night, Has decisively fucked his neighbor, And now takes her to the miserable movies, Where the heroes are horses or passionate princes, And he caresses her legs covered with sweet downwind his ardent and sweaty palms that smell like cigarettes. The night of the hunter and the night of the husbandmen together like bedsheets and bury me, And the hours after lunch, when the students and priests are masturbating, And the animals mount each other openly, And the bees smell of blood, and the flies buzz cholerically, And cousins play strange games with cousins, And doctors glower at the husband of the young patient, And the early morning in which the professor, without a thought, Pays his conjugal debt and eats breakfast, And to top it all off, the adulterers, who love each other truly beds big and tall as ships:So, eternally, This twisted and breathing forest crushes with gigantic flowers like mouth and teething black roots like fingernails and shoes. Translated by Mike Topp. 
 

 Brown and agile child, the sun which forms the fruiting ripens the grain and twists the seaweeds made your happy body and your luminous and given your mouth the smile of water. A black and anguished sun is entangled in the twigs your black mane when you hold out your arms. You play in the sun as in a tidal Reverend it leaves two dark pools in your eyes. Brown and agile child, nothing draws me to you, Everything pulls away from me here in the noon. You are the delirious youth of bee, The drunkenness of the wave, the power of the wheat. My somber heart seeks you always love your happy body, your rich, soft voice. Dusky butterfly, sweet and surplice the wheat filed, the sun, the poppy, and the water. 
 

 There are cemeteries that are lonely, graves full of bones that do not make a sound, the heart moving through a tunnel, in it darkness, darkness, darkness, like a shipwreck we die going into ourselves, as though we were drowning inside our hearts, as though we lived falling out of the skin into the soul. And there are corpses, feet made of cold and sticky clay, death is inside the bones, like a barking where there are no dogs, coming out from bells somewhere, from graves somewhere, growing in the damp air like tears of rain. Sometimes I see alone coffins under sail, embarking with the pale dead, with women that have dead hair, with bakers who are as white as angels, and pensive young girls married to notary public, caskets sailing up the vertical river of the dead, the river of dark purple, moving upstream with sails filled out by the sound of death, filled by the sound of death which is silence. Death arrives among all that soundalike a shoe with no foot in it, like a suit with no man in it, comes and knocks, using a ring with no stone in it, with no finger in it, comes and shouts with no mouth, with no tongue, with no throat.Nevertheless, its steps can be hairband its clothing makes a hushed sound, like a tree. I'm not sure, I understand only a little, I can hardly see, but it seems to me that its singing has the color of damp violets, of violets that are at home in the earth, because the face of death is green, and the look death gives is green, with the penetrating dampness of a violet leaf and the somber color of embittered winter. But death also goes through the world dressed as a broom, lapping the floor, looking for dead bodies, death is inside the broom, the broom is the tongue of death looking for corpses, it is the needle of death looking for thread. Death is inside the folding cots:it spends its life sleeping on the slow mattresses, in the black blankets, and suddenly breathes out:it blows out a mournful sound that swells the sheets, and the beds go sailing toward a port where death is waiting, dressed like an admiral. Translated by Robert Bly. 
 

 And now you're mine. Rest with your dream in my dream. Love and pain and work should all sleep, now. The night turns on its invisible wheels, and you are pure beside me as a sleeping amber. No one else, Love, will sleep in my dreams. You will go, we will go together, over the waters of time. No one else will travel through the shadows with me, only you, evergreen, ever sun, ever moon. Your hands have already opened their delicate fist sand let their soft drifting signs drop away; your eyes closed like two gray wings, and I move after, following the folding water you carry, that carries me away. The night, the world, the wind spin out their destiny. Without you, I am your dream, only that, and that is all. 
 

 Arise to birth with me, my brother. Give me your hand out of the depths sown by your sorrows. You will not return from these stone fastnesses. You will not emerge from subterranean time. Your rasping voice will not come back, nor your pierced eyes rise from their sockets. Look at me from the depths of the earth, tiller of fields, weaver, reticent shepherd, groom of totemic guaiacol, mason high on your treacherous scaffolding, iceman of Andean tears, jeweler with crushed fingers, farmer anxious among his seedlings, potter wasted among his clays--bring to the cup of this new life your ancient buried sorrows. Show me your blood and your furrow;say to me: here I was scourged because a gem was dull or because the earth failed to give up in time its tithe of corn or stone. Point out to me the rock on which you stumbled, the wood they used to crucify your body. Strike the old flints to kindle ancient lamps, light up the whips glued to your wounds throughout the centuries and light the axes gleaming with your blood. I come to speak for your dead mouths. Throughout the earth let dead lips congregate, out of the depths spin this long night to MCAS if I rode at anchor here with you. And tell me everything, tell chain by chain, and link by link, and step by step;sharpen the knives you kept hidden away, thrust them into my breast, into my hands, like a torrent of sunbursts, an Amazon of buried jaguars, and leave me cry: hours, days and years, blind ages, stellar centuries. And give me silence, give me water, hope. Give me the struggle, the iron, the volcanoes. Let bodies cling like magnets to my body. Come quickly to my veins and to my mouth. Speak through my speech, and through my blood. 
 

 Carnal apple, Woman filled, burning moon, dark smell of seaweed, crush of mud and light, what secret knowledge is clasped between your pillars? What primal night does Man touch with his senses? Ay, Love is a journey through waters and stars, through suffocating air, sharp tempests of grain:Love is a war of lightning, and two bodies ruined by a single sweetness. Kiss by kiss I cover your tiny infinity, your margins, your rivers, your diminutive villages, and a genital fire, transformed by delight, slips through the narrow channels of blood to precipitate a nocturnal carnation, to be, and be nothing but light in the dark. 
 

 What's wrong with you, with us, what's happening to us? Ah our love is a harsh cord that binds us wounding us and if we want to leave our wound, to separate, it makes a new knot for us and condemns us to drain our blood and burn together. What's wrong with you? I look at you and I find nothing in you but two eyes like all eyes, a mouth lost among a thousand mouths that I have kissed, more beautiful, a body just like those that have slipped beneath my body without leaving any memory. And how empty you went through the world like a wheat-colored jar without air, without sound, without substance! I vainly sought in your depth for my arms that dig, without cease, beneath the earth: beneath your skin, beneath your eyes, nothing, beneath your double breast scarcely raised a current of crystalline order that does not know why it flows singing. Why, why, why, my love, why? 
 

 Lost in the forest, I broke off a dark twig and lifted its whisper to my thirsty lips:maybe it was the voice of the rain crying, a cracked bell, or a torn heart. Something from far off it seemed deep and secret to me, hidden by the earth, a shout muffled by huge autumns, by the moist half-open darkness of the leaves. Wakening from the dreaming forest there, the hazel-sprigsang under my tongue, its drifting fragrance climbed up through my conscious minds if suddenly the roots I had left behind cried out to me, the land I had lost with my childhood---and I stopped, wounded by the wandering scent. 
 

 All those men were there inside, when she came in totally naked. They had been drinking: they began to spit. Newly come from the river, she knew nothing. She was a mermaid who had lost her way. The insults flowed down her gleaming flesh. Obscenities drowned her golden breasts. Not knowing tears, she did not weep tears. Not knowing clothes, she did not have clothes. They blackened her with burnt corks and cigarette stubs, and rolled around laughing on the tavern floor. She did not speak because she had no speech. Her eyes were the color of distant love, her twin arms were made of white topaz. Her lips moved, silent, in a coral light, and suddenly she went out by that door. Entering the river she was cleaned, shining like a white stone in the rain, and without looking back she swam again swam towards emptiness, swam towards death. 
 

 I can write the saddest poem of all tonight. Write, for instance: “The night is full of stars, and the stars, blue, shiver in the distance.” The night wind whirls in the sky and sings. I can write the saddest poem of all tonight. I loved her, and sometimes she loved me too. On nights like this, I held her in my arms. I kissed her so many times under the infinite sky. She loved me, sometimes I loved her. How could I not have loved her large, still eyes? I can write the saddest poem of all tonight. To think I don't have her. To feel that I've lost her. To hear the immense night, more immense without her. And the poem falls to the soul as dew to grass. What does it matter that my love couldn't keep her? The night is full of stars, and she is not with me. That's all. Far away, someone sings. Far away. My soul is lost without her. As if to bring her near, my eyes search for her. My heart searches for her, and she is not with me. The same night that whitens the same trees. We, we who were, we are the same no longer. I no longer love her, true, but how much I loved her. My voice searched the wind to touch her ear. Someone else's. She will be someone else's. As she once belonged to my kisses. Her voice, her light body. Her infinite eyes. I no longer love her, true, but perhaps I love her. Love is so short and oblivion so long. Because on nights like this I held her in my arms, my soul is lost without her. Although this may be the last pain she causes me, and this may be the last poem I write for her. 
 

 How neatly a cat sleeps, sleeps with its paws and its posture, sleeps with its wicked claws, and with its unfeeling blood, sleeps with all the rings- a series of burnt circles- which have formed the odd geology of its sand-colored tail. I should like to sleep like a cat, with all the fur of time, with a tongue rough as flint, with the dry sex of fire; and after speaking to no one, stretch myself over the world, over roofs and landscapes, with a passionate desire to hunt the rats in my dreams. I have seen how the cat asleep would undulate, how the night flowed through it like dark water; and at times, it was going to fallow possibly plunge into the bare deserted snowdrifts. Sometimes it grew so much in sleep like a tiger's great-grandfather, and would leap in the darkness over rooftops, clouds and volcanoes. Sleep, sleep cat of the night, with episcopal ceremony and your stone-carved mustache. Take care of all our dreams; control the obscurity of our slumbering prowess with your relentless heartland the great ruff of your tail. Translated by Alastair Reid. 
 

 I can write the saddest poem of all tonight. Write, for instance: “The night is full of stars, and the stars, blue, shiver in the distance.” The night wind whirls in the sky and sings. I can write the saddest poem of all tonight. I loved her, and sometimes she loved me too. On nights like this, I held her in my arms. I kissed her so many times under the infinite sky. She loved me, sometimes I loved her. How could I not have loved her large, still eyes? I can write the saddest poem of all tonight. To think I don't have her. To feel that I've lost her. To hear the immense night, more immense without her. And the poem falls to the soul as dew to grass. What does it matter that my love couldn't keep her? The night is full of stars, and she is not with me. That's all. Far away, someone sings. Far away. My soul is lost without her. As if to bring her near, my eyes search for her. My heart searches for her, and she is not with me. The same night that whitens the same trees. We, we who were, we are the same no longer. I no longer love her, true, but how much I loved her. My voice searched the wind to touch her ear. Someone else's. She will be someone else's. As she once belonged to my kisses. Her voice, her light body. Her infinite eyes. I no longer love her, true, but perhaps I love her. Love is so short and oblivion so long. Because on nights like this I held her in my arms, my soul is lost without her. Although this may be the last pain she causes me, and this may be the last poem I write for her. 
 

 You've asked me what the lobster is weaving there with his golden feet? I reply, the ocean knows this. You say, what is the acidic waiting for in its transparent bell? What is it waiting for? I tell you it is waiting for time, like you. You ask me whom the Microcystin alga hugs in its arms? Study, study it, at a certain hour, in a certain sea I know. You question me about the wicked tusk of the narwhal, and I reply by describing how the sea unicorn with the harpoon in it dies. You inquire about the kingfisher's feathers, which tremble in the pure springs of the southern tides? Or you've found in the cards a new question touching on the crystal architecture of the sea anemone, and you'll deal that to me now? You want to understand the electric nature of the ocean spines?  The armored stalactite that breaks as it walks?  The hook of the angler fish, the music stretched out in the deep places like a thread in the water?  I want to tell you the ocean knows this, that life in its jewel boxes is endless as the sand, impossible to count, pure, and among the blood-colored grapes time has made the petal hard and shiny, made the jellyfish full of light and untied its knot, letting its musical threads fall from a horn of plenty made of infinite mother-of-pearl.  I am nothing but the empty net which has gone on ahead of human eyes, dead in those darkness es, of fingers accustomed to the triangle, longitudes on the timid globe of an orange.  I walked around as you do, investigating the endless star, and in my net, during the night, I woke up naked, the only thing caught, a fish trapped inside the wind. Translated by Robert Bly. 
 

 And it was at that age ... Poetry arrive din search of me. I don't know, I don't know wherein came from, from winter or a river. I don't know how or when, no they were not voices, they were notworks, nor silence, but from a street I was summoned, from the branches of night, abruptly from the others, among violent fires or returning alone, there I was without a face and it touched me. I did not know what to say, my mouth had no way with names, my eyes were blind, and something started in my soul, fever or forgotten wings, and I made my own way, decipheringthat fire, and I wrote the first faint line, faint, without substance, pure nonsense, pure wisdom of someone who knows nothing, and suddenly I swathe heavensunfastenedand open, planets,palpitating plantations, shadow perforated, riddledwith arrows, fire and flowers, the winding night, the universe. And I, infinitesimal being, drunk with the great starry void, likeness, image of mystery, felt myself a pure part of the abyss, I wheeled with the stars, my heart broke loose on the wind. 
 

 When I cannot look at your face I look at your feet. Your feet of arched bone, your hard little feet. I know that they support you, and that your sweet weight rises upon them. Your waist and your breasts, the doubled purple of your nipples, the sockets of your eyes that have just flown away, your wide fruit mouth, your red tresses, my little tower. But I love your feet only because they walked upon the earth and upon the wind and upon the waters, until they found me. 
 

 Out of lemon flowersloosedon the moonlight, love'slashed and insatiable essences, sodden with fragrance, the lemon tree's yellow emerges, the lemons move down from the tree's planetariumDelicate merchandise! The harbors are big with it-bazaarsfor the light and the barbarous gold. We open the halves of a miracle, and a clotting of acidsbrimsinto the starry divisions:creation'original juices, irreducible, changeless, alive:so the freshness lives onion a lemon, in the sweet-smelling house of the rind, the proportions, arcane and Acer. Cutting the lemon the knife leaves a little cathedral:alcoves guessed by the eye that open acidulous glass to the light; topazes riding the droplets, altars,aromatic facades. So, while the handholds the cut of the lemon, half a world on a trencher, the gold of the universewellsto your touch:a cup yellow with miracles, a breast and a nipple perfuming the earth;a flashing made fruit age, the diminutive fire of a planet. 
 

 The memory of you emerges from the surrounding night. The river mingles its stubborn lament with the sea. Deserted like the wharves at dawn. It is the hour of departure, oh deserted one! Cold flower heads are raining over my heart.Oh, pit of debris, fierce cave of the shipwrecked. In you the wars and the flights accumulated. From you the wings of the song birds rose. You swallowed everything, like distance. Like the sea, like time. In you everything sank! It was the happy hour of assault and the kiss. The hour of the spell that blazed like a lighthouse. Pilot's dread, fury of blind driver, turbulent drunkenness of love, in you everything sank! In the childhood of mist my soul, winged and wounded. Lost discoverer, in you everything sank! You girdled sorrow, you clung to desire, sadness stunned you, in you everything sank! I made the wall of shadow draw back, beyond desire and act, I walked on. Oh flesh, my own flesh, woman whom I loved and lost, I summon you in the moist hour, I raise my song to you. Like a jar you housed infinite tenderness.and the infinite oblivion shattered you like a jar. There was the black solitude of the islands, and there, woman of love, your arms took me in. There was thirst and hunger, and you were the fruit. There were grief and ruins, and you were the miracle. Ah woman, I do not know how you could contain man the earth of your soul, in the cross of your arms! How terrible and brief my desire was to you! How difficult and drunken, how tensed and avid. Cemetery of kisses, there is still fire in your tombs, still the fruited boughs burn, pecked at by birds.Oh, the bitten mouth, oh the kissed limbs, oh the hungering teeth, oh the entwined bodies.Oh, the mad coupling of hope and force in which we merged and despaired. And the tenderness, light as water and as flour. And the word scarcely begun on the lips. This was my destiny and in it was my voyage of my longing, and in it my longing fell, in you everything sank! Oh, pit of debris, everything fell into you, what sorrow did you not express, in what sorrow are you not drowned! From billow to billow you still called and sang. Standing like a sailor in the prow of a vessel. You still flowered in songs, you still broke the currents.Oh, pit of debris, open and bitter well. Pale blind diver, luckless singer, lost discoverer, in you everything sank! It is the hour of departure, the hard cold hour which the night fastens to all the timetables. The rustling belt of the sea girdles the shore. Cold stars heave up, black birds migrate. Deserted like the wharves at dawn. Only tremulous shadow twists in my hands.Oh, farther than everything. Oh, farther than everything. It is the hour of departure. Oh, abandoned one! 
 

 I can write the saddest lines tonight. Write for example: ‘The night is fractured and they shiver, blue, those stars, in the distance’ The night wind turns in the sky and sings. I can write the saddest lines tonight. I loved her, sometimes she loved me too. On nights like these I held her in my arms. I kissed her greatly under the infinite sky. She loved me, sometimes I loved her too. How could I not have loved her huge, still eyes. I can write the saddest lines tonight. To think I don’t have her, to feel I have lost her. Hear the vast night, vaster without her. Lines fall on the soul like dew on the grass. What does it matter that I couldn’t keep her? The night is fractured and she is not with me. That is all. Someone sings far off. Far off, my soul is not content to have lost her. As though to reach her, my sight looks for her. My heart looks for her: she is not with me The same night whitens, in the same branches. We, from that time, we are not the same. I don’t love her, that’s certain, but how I loved her. My voice tried to find the breeze to reach her. Another’s kisses on her, like my kisses. Her voice, her bright body, infinite eyes. I don’t love her, that’s certain, but perhaps I love her. Love is brief: forgetting lasts so long. Since, on these nights, I held her in my arms, my soul is not content to have lost her. Though this is the last pain she will make me suffer, and these are the last lines I will write for her. 
 

 I do not love you as if you were salt-rose, or topaz, or the arrow of carnations the fire shoots off. I love you as certain dark things are to be loved, in secret, between the shadow and the soul. I love you as the plant that never blooms but carries in itself the light of hidden flowers;thanks to your love a certain solid fragrance, risen from the earth, lives darkly in my body. I love you without knowing how, or when, or from where. I love you straightforwardly, without complexities or pride;so I love you because I know no other way than this: where I do not exist, nor you, so close that your hand on my chest is my hand, so close that your eyes close as I fall asleep. Translated by Stephen TapscottAnonymous Submission. 
 

 Translated from the Spanish by Christopher LogueDrunk as drunk on turpentineFrom your open kisses, Your wet body wedgedBetween my wet body and the strategy our boat that is made of flowers, Feasted, we guide it — our fingerling allows adorned with yellow metal -Over the sky's hot rim, The day's last breath in our sails. Pinned by the sun between solstice equinox, drowsy and tangled together drifted for months and Sopwith the bitter taste of land on our lips, Eyelids all sticky, and we longed for limeade the sound of a nonflowering a bucket down its well. Then, We came by night to the Fortunate Isles, And lay like founder the net of our kisses. 
 

 And because love battle snot only in its burning agriculturist also in the mouth of men and women, I will finish off by taking the path away to those who between my chest and your fragrance want to interpose their obscure plant. About me, nothing worse they will tell you, my love, than what I told you. I lived in the prairies before I got to know you and I did not wait love but I waylaying in wait for and I jumped on the rose. What more can they tell you? I am neither good nor bad but a man, and they will then associate the danger of my life, which you know and which with your passion you shared. And good, this dangers danger of love, of complete love for all life, for all lives, and if this love brings us the death and the prisons, I am sure that your big eyes, as when I kiss them, will then close with pride, into double pride, love, with your pride and my pride. But to my ears they will come before to wear down the tour of the sweet and hard love which binds us, and they will say: “The one you love, is not a woman for you, Why do you love her? I think you could find one more beautiful, more serious, more deep, more other, you understand me, look how she’s light, and what a head she has, and look at how she dresses, and etcetera and etcetera”. And I in these lines say:Like this I want you, love, love, Like this I love you, as you dress and how your hair lifts upland how your mouth smiles, light as the water of the spring upon the pure stones, Like this I love you, beloved. To bread I do not ask to teach debut only not to lack during every day of life. I don’t know anything about light, from wherein comes nor where it goes, I only want the light to light up, I do not ask the night explanations, I wait for it and it envelops me, And so you, bread and lighting shadow are. You came to my life with what you were bringing, madeof light and bread and shadow I expected you, and Like this I need you, Like this I love you, and to those who want to hear tomorrow that which I will not tell them, let them read it here, and let them back off today because it is early for these arguments. Tomorrow we will only give them leaf of the tree of our love, a leaf which will fall on the earth like if it had been made by our lips like a kiss which falls from our invincible heights to show the fire and the tenderness of a true love. 
 

 We have lost even this twilight. No one saw us this evening hand in hand while the blue night dropped on the world. I have seen from my window the fiesta of sunset in the distant mountain tops. Sometimes a piece of sunburned like a coin in my hand. I remembered you with my soul clenched in that sadness of mine that you know. Where were you then? Who else was there? Saying what? Why will the whole of love come on me suddenly when I am sad and feel you are far away? The book fell that always closed at twilight and my blue sweater rolled like a hurt dog at my feet.Always, always you recede through the evenings toward the twilight erasing statues. 
 

 You are going to ask: and where are the lilacs?and the poppy-petalled metaphysics?and the rain repeatedly spattering its words and drilling them full of apertures and birds? I'll tell you all the news. I lived in a suburb, a suburb of Madrid, with bells, and clocks, and trees. From there you could look out over Castillo's dry face:a leather ocean. My house was called the house of flowers, because in every cranny geraniums burst: it was good-looking house with its dogs and children. Remember, Raul? Eh, Rafael? Federico, do you remember from under the ground my balconies on which the light of June drowned flowers in your mouth? Brother, my brother! Everythingloud with big voices, the salt of merchandises, pile-ups of palpitating bread, the stalls of my suburb of Arguello with its statue like a drained inkwell in a swirl of hake:oil flowed into spoons, a deep baying of feet and hands swelled in the streets, metres, liters, the sharp measure of life, stacked-up fish, the texture of roofs with a cold sun in which the weather vane falters, the fine, frenzied ivory of potatoes, wave on wave of tomatoes rolling down the sea. And one morning all that was burning, one morning the bonfires leapt out of the earth devouring human beings --and from then on fire, gunpowder from then on, and from then on blood. Bandits with planes and Moors, bandits with finger-rings and duchesses, bandits with black friars spattering blessings came through the sky to kill children and the blood of children ran through the streets without fuss, like children's blood. Jackals that the jackals would despise, stones that the dry thistle would bite on and spit out, vipers that the vipers would abominate! Face to face with you, I have seen the blood of Spain tower like a tide to drown you in one wave of pride and knives! Treacherousgenerals:see my dead house, look at broken Spain :from every house burning metal flows instead of flowers, from every socket of Spain Spain emerge sand from every dead child a rifle with eyes, and from every crime bullets are born which will one day find the bull's eye of your hearts. And you'll ask: why doesn't his poetry speak of dreams and leave sand the great volcanoes of his native land? Come and see the blood in the streets. Come and seethe blood in the streets. Come and see the blooding the streets! 
 

 It was passed from one bird to another, the whole gift of the day. The day went from flute to flute, went dressed in vegetation, in flights which opened a tunnel through the wind would pass to where birds were breaking open the dense blue air -and there, night came in. When I returned from so many journeys, I stayed suspended and green between sun and geography -I saw how wings worked, how perfumes are transmitted by feathery telegraph, and from above I saw the path, the springs and the roof tiles, the fishermen at their trades, the trousers of the foam;I saw it all from my green sky. I had no more alphabet than the swallows in their courses, the tiny, shining water of the small bird on fire which dances out of the pollen. 
 

 Tonight I can write the saddest lines. Write, for example,'The night is shattered and the blue stars shiver in the distance.' The night wind revolves in the sky and sings. Tonight I can write the saddest lines. I loved her, and sometimes she loved me too. Through nights like this one I held her in my arms kissed her again and again under the endless sky. She loved me sometimes, and I loved her too. How could one not have loved her great still eyes. Tonight I can write the saddest lines. To think that I do not have her. To feel that I have lost her. To hear the immense night, still more immense without her. And the verse falls to the soul like dew to the pasture. What does it matter that my love could not keep her? The night is shattered and she is not with me. This is all. In the distance someone is singing. In the distance. My soul is not satisfied that it has lost her. My sight searches for her as though to go to her. My heart looks for her, and she is not with me. The same night whitening the same trees. We, of that time, are no longer the same. I no longer love her, that's certain, but how I loved her. My voice tried to find the wind to touch her hearing. Another's. She will be another's. Like my kisses before. Her voice. Her bright body. Her infinite eyes. I no longer love her, that's certain, but maybe I love her. Love is so short, forgetting is so long. Because through nights like this one I held her in my arms my would is not satisfied that it has lost her. Though this be the last pain that she makes me suffer and these the last verses that I write for her. 
 

 I do not love you as if you were salt-rose, or topaz, or the arrow of carnations the fire shoots off. I love you as certain dark things are to be loved, in secret, between the shadow and the soul. I love you as the plant that never blooms but carries in itself the light of hidden flowers;thanks to your love a certain solid fragrance, risen from the earth, lives darkly in my body. I love you without knowing how, or when, or from where. I love you straightforwardly, without complexities or pride;so I love you because I know no other way than this: where I do not exist, nor you, so close that your hand on my chest is my hand, so close that your eyes close as I fall asleep. 
 

 My dog has died. I buried him in the garden next to a rusted old machine. Some day I'll join him right there, but now he's gone with his shaggy coat, his bad manners and his cold nose, and I, the materialist, who never believe din any promised heaven in the sky for any human being, I believe in a heaven I'll never enter. Yes, I believe in a heaven for all dogdomwhere my dog waits for my arrival waving his fan-like tail in friendship. Ai, I'll not speak of sadness here on earth, of having lost a companion who was never servile. His friendship for me, like that of a porcupine withholding its authority, was the friendship of a star, aloof, with no more intimacy than was called for, with no exaggerations:he never climbed all over my clothes filling me full of his hair or his mange, he never rubbed up against my knee like other dogs obsessed with sex. No, my dog used to gaze at me, paying me the attention I need, the attention required to make a vain person like me understand that, being a dog, he was wasting time, but, with those eyes so much purer than mine, he'd keep on gazing at me with a look that reserved for me alone all his sweet and shaggy life, always near me, never troubling me, and asking nothing. Ai, how many times have I envied his tails we walked together on the shores of the Spain the lonely winter of Islam Negrawhere the wintering birds filled the sky and my hairy dog was jumping about full of the voltage of the sea's movement:my wandering dog, sniffing away with his golden tail held high, face to face with the ocean's spray. Joyful, joyful, joyful, as only dogs know how to be happy with only the autonomy of their shameless spirit. There are no good-byes for my dog who has died, and we don't know and never did lie to each other. So now he's gone and I buried him, and that's all there is to it. Translated, from the Spanish, by Alfred Manager 
 

 Take bread away from me, if you wish, take air away, outdo not take from me your laughter. Do not take away the rose, the lance flower that you pluck, the water that suddenly bursts forth in joy, the sudden wave of silver born in you. My struggle is harsh and I come back with eyes tired at times from having seethe unchanging earth, but when your laughter enter sit rises to the sky seeking mean it opens for me all the doors of life. My love, in the darkest hour your laughter opens, and if suddenly you see my blood staining the stones of the street, laugh, because your laughter will be for my hands like a fresh sword. Next to the sea in the autumn, your laughter must raise its foamy cascade, and in the spring, love, I want your laughter like the flower I was waiting for, the blue flower, the rose of my echoing country. Laugh at the night, at the day, at the moon, laugh at the twisted streets of the island, laugh at this clumsy boy who loves you, but when I openly eyes and close them, when my steps go, when my steps return, deny me bread, air, light, spring, but never your laughter for I would die. 
 
