
 Our death is our wedding with eternity. What is the secret? 'God is One.' The sunlight splits when entering the windows of the house. This multiplicity exists in the cluster of grapes;It is not in the juice made from the grapes. For he who is living in the Light of God, The death of the carnal soul is a blessing. Regarding him, say neither bad nor good, For he is gone beyond the good and the bad. Fix your eyes on God and do not talk about what is invisible, So that he may place another look in your eyes. It is in the vision of the physical aesthete no invisible or secret thing exists. But when the eye is turned toward the Light of What thing could remain hidden under such a Light? Although all lights emanate from the Divine Light Don't call all these lights 'the Light of God';It is the eternal light which is the Light of God, The ephemeral light is an attribute of the body and the flesh....Oh, God! who gives the grace of vision! The bird of vision is flying towards You with the wings of desire. 
 

 When grapes turn to wine, they long for our ability to change. When stars wheel around the North Pole, they are longing for our growing consciousness. Wine got drunk with us, not the other way. The body developed out of us, not we from it. We are bees, and our body is a honeycomb. We made the body, cell by cell we made it. translated by Robert Bly. 
 

 Are you fleeing from Love because of a single humiliation? What do you know of Love except the name? Love has a hundred forms of pride and disdain, and is gained by a hundred means of persuasion. Since Love is loyal, it purchases one who is loyal:it has no interest in a disloyal companion. The human being resembles a tree; its root is a covenant with God:that root must be cherished with all one's might. A weak covenant is a rotten root, without grace or fruit. Though the boughs and leaves of the date palm are green, greenness brings no benefit if the root is corrupt. If a branch is without green leaves, yet has a good root, a hundred leaves will put forth their hands in the end. 
 

 A man standing on two logs in a river might do all right float with the current while humming in the now. Thoughif one log is tied to a camel, who is also heading south along the bank — at the same pace-all could still be well with the world unless the camel thinks he forgot something, and abruptly turns upstream, thenuh-oh. Most minds do not live in the present and can stick to a reasonable plan; most minds abruptly turn and undermine thechanceofhumming. 
 

 What was said to the rose that made it open was said to me here in my chest. What was told the cypress that made it strong and straight, what was whispered the jasmine so it is what it is, whatever made sugarcane sweet, whatever was said to the inhabitants of the town of Civil in Turkestan that makes them so handsome, whatever lets the pomegranate flower blush like a human face, that visaing said to me now. I blush. Whatever put eloquence in language, that's happening here. The great warehouse doors open; I fill with gratitude, chewing a piece of sugarcane, in love with the one to whom every that belongs! 
 

 All day I think about it, then at night I say it. Where did I come from, and what am I supposed to be doing? I have no idea. My soul is from elsewhere, I'm sure of that, and I intend to end up there. This drunkenness began in some other tavern. When I get back around to that place, I'll be completely sober. Meanwhile, I'm like a bird from another continent, sitting in this aviary. The day is coming when I fly off, but who is it now in my ear who hears my voice? Who says words with my mouth? Who looks out with my eyes? What is the soul? I cannot stop asking. If I could taste one sip of an answer, I could break out of this prison for drunks. I didn't come here of my own accord, and I can't leave that way. Whoever brought me here, will have to take me home. This poetry. I never know what I'm going to say. I don't plan it. When I'm outside the saying of it, I get very quiet and rarely speak at all. 
 

 The temple of love is not love itself;True love is the treasure, Not the walls about it. Do not admire the decoration, But involve yourself in the essence, The perfume that invades and touches you-The beginning and the end. Discovered, this replaces all else, The apparent and the unknowable. Time and space are slaves to this presence. 
 

 What will our children do in the morning? Will they wake with their hearts wanting to play, the way wings should? Will they have dreamed the needed flights and gathered the strength from the planets that Allen and women need to balance the wonderful charms of the earths that her power and beauty does not make us forget our own? I know all about the ways of the heart — how it wants to be alive. Love so needs to love that it will endure almost anything, even abuse, just to flicker for a moment. But the sky's mouth is kind, its song will never hurt you, for I sing those words. What will our children do in the morning if they do not see us fly? 
 

 I gaze into the heart, lowly it may be, Thought the words be higher still. For the heart is all the substance, The speech an accident. How many phrases will you speak, Too many for me. How much burning, burning will you feel, Be friendly with the fire, enough for me. Light up the fire of love inside, And blaze the thoughts away. 
 

 There is a passion in me that doesn't long for anything from another human being. I was given something else, a cap to wear in both worlds. It fell off. No matter. One morning I went to a place beyond dawn. A source of sweetness that flow sand is never less. I have been shown a beauty that would confuse both worlds, but I won't cause that uproar. I am nothing but a headset on the grounds a gift for Shams. 
 

 Go to your pillow and sleep, my son. Leave me alone in the passion this death-night. Let the mill turn with your grieving. But stay clear. Don't fall into the river with me. There's no way out, no cure but death. Last night in a dream I saw an old man standing in a garden. It was all Love. He held out his hand and said, Come toward me. If there is a dragon on this path, that old man has the emerald face that can deflect it. This is enough am I leaving me self. Bahauddin, my son, if you want to be impressively learned, memorize a famous historian, and quote him as someone else! 
 

 We've come again to that knee of seacoast no ocean can reach. Tie together all human intellects. They won't stretch to here. The sky bares its neck so beautifully, but gets no kiss. Only a taste. This is the food that everyone wants, wandering the wilderness, “Please give your manna and quail.” We're here again with the Beloved. This air, a shout. These meadow sounds, an astonishing myth. We've come into the Presence of the One who was never apart from us. When the water bag is filling, you know the Water-carrier's here! The bag leans lovingly against Your shoulder.” Without You, I have no knowledge, no way to touch anyone.” When someone chews sugarcane, he's wanting this Sweetness. Inside this globe the soul roars like thunder. And now Silence, my strict tutor. I won't try to talk about Shams. Language cannot touch that Presence. 
 

 I don't get tired of you. Don't grow weary of being compassionate toward me! All this thirst equipment must surely be tired of me, the water jar, the water carrier. I have a thirsty fish in me that can never find enough of what it's thirsty for! Show me the way to the ocean! Break these half-measures, these small containers. All this fantasy and grief. Let my house be drowned in the wave that rose last night in the courtyard hidden in the center of my chest. Joseph fell like the moon into my well. The harvest I expected was washed away. But no matter. A fire has risen above my tombstone hat. I don't want learning, or dignity, or respectability. I want this music and this dawn and the warmth of your cheek against mine. The grief-armies assemble, but I'm not going with them. This is how it always is when I finish a poem. A great silence comes over me, and I wonder why I ever thought to use language. 
 

 “Granite and Wineglass”You are granite. I am an empty wineglass. You know what happens when we touch! You laugh like the sun coming up laugh sat a star that disappears into it. Love opens my chest, and thought returns to its confines. Patient and rational considerations leave. Only passion stays, whimpering and feverish. Some men fall down in the road like dregs thrown out. Then, totally reckless, the next morning they gallop out with new purposes. Lovers the reality, and poetry is the drum that calls us to that. Don't keep complaining about loneliness! Let the fear-language of that theme crack open and float away. Let the priest come down from his tower, and not go back up! 
 

 Love makes bitter things sweet. Love turns copper to gold. With love dregs settle into clarity. With love suffering ceases. Love brings the dead back to life. Love transforms the King into a slave. Love is the consummation of Gnosis. How could a fool sit on such a throne? 
 

 The moon has become a dance rat this festival of love. This dance of light, This sacred blessing, This divine love, beckons unto a world beyond only lovers can see with their eyes of fiery passion. They are the chosen ones who have surrendered. Once they were particles of light now they are the radiant sun. They have left behind the world of deceitful games. They are the privileged lovers who create a new world with their eyes of fiery passion. Translated by: Pardon Kia. 
 

 With passion pray. With passion work. With passion make love. With passion eat and drink and dance and play. Why look like a dead fishing this ocean of God? 
 

 Love and imagination are magicians create an image of the Beloved in your minority which you share your secret intimate moments. This apparition is made of nothing at all, But from its mouth comes the question, ‘Am I not your Loved One?'and from you the soft reply'Yes. Yes. Yes.' 
 

 This is love: to fly to heaven, every moment to rend a hundred veils; At first instance, to break away from breath -first step, to renounce feet; To disregard this world, to see only that which you yourself have seen I said, 'Heart, congratulations on entering the circle of lovers,'On gazing beyond the range of the eye, on running into the alley of the breasts.' Whence came this breath, O heart? Whence came this throbbing, O heart? Bird, speak the tongue of birds: I can heed your cipher! The heart said, 'I was in the factory whilst the home of water and clay was baking.' I was flying from the workshop whilst the workshop was being created.' When I could no more resist, they dragged me; how shall Tell the manner of that dragging? ' 
 

 If you put your hands on this oar with me, they will never harm another, and they will come to find they hold everything you want. If you put your hands on this oar with me, they would no longer lift anything to your mouth that might wound your precious land-that sacred earth that is your body. If you put your soul against this oar with me, the power that made the universe will enter your sinew from a source not outside your limbs, but from a holy realm that lives in us. Exuberant is existence, time a husk. When the moment cracks open, ecstasy leaps out and devours space; love goes mad with the blessings, like my words give. Why lay yourself on the torturer's rack of the past and future? The mind that tries to shape tomorrow beyond its capacities will find no rest. Be kind to yourself, dear- to our innocent follies. Forget any sounds or touch you knew that did not help you dance. You will come to see that all evolves us. If you put your heart against the earth with me, in serving every creature, our Beloved will enter you from our sacred realm and we will be, we will best happy. 
 

 In the orchard and rose garden long to see your face. In the taste of Sweetness long to kiss your lips. In the shadows of passion long for your love. Oh! Supreme Lover! Let me leave aside my worries. The flowers are blooming with the exultation of your Spirit. By Allah! I long to escape the prison of my ego and lose mys elfin the mountains and the desert. These sad and lonely people tire me. I long to revel in the drunken frenzy of your love and feel the strength of RUSTA in my hands. I'm sick of mortal kings. I long to see your light. With lamps in hand the sheiks and mullahs roam the dark alleys of these town snot finding what they seek. You are the Essence of the Essence, The intoxication of Love. I long to sing your praises but stand mute with the agony of wishing in my heart. 
 

 For your pain will keep giving birth to more pain until your eyes constantly exhale lovers effortlessly as your body yields its scent.' 
 

 My heart is burning with Lovell can see this flame heart is pulsing with passion like waves on an ocean my friends have become stranger sand I'm surrounded by enemies I'm free as the wind no longer hurt by those who reproach me'm at home wherever I Amanda in the room of lovers can see with closed eyes the beauty that dancesBehind the veils intoxicated with love to dance the rhythm of this moving world have lost my sense sin my world of lovers 
 

 Love is not condescension, never that, nor books, nor any marking on paper, nor what people say of each other. Love is a tree with branches reaching into eternity and roots set deep in eternity, and no trunk! Have you seen it? The mind cannot. Your desiring cannot. The longing you feel for this loves comes from inside you. When you become the Friend, your longing will be as the man in the ocean who holds to a piece of wood. Eventually, wood, man, and oceans become one swaying being, 
 

 O incomparable Giver of life, cut reason loose at last! Let it wander graveled from vanity to vanity. Shatter open my skull, pour in it the wine of madness! Let me be mad, as You; mad with You, with us. Beyond the sanity of fools is a burning everywhere Your sun is whirling in every atom:Beloved, drag me there, let me roast in Perfection! 
 

 When the rose is gone and the garden faded you will no longer hear the nightingale's song. The Beloved is all; the lover just a veil. The Beloved is living; the lover a dead thing. If love withholds its strengthening care, the lover is left like a bird without care, the lover is left like a bird without wings. How will I be awake and aware if the light of the Beloved is absent? Love wills that this Word be brought forth. 
 

 Time Bridget swift to endure rout men keep;Death's wolf is nigh to enthuse silly sheep. See, how in pride they with lifted head, Till Fate with a sudden blowSmiteth them dead.2. Thou who lowest, life a crow, Winter's chill and winter's snow, Ever exiled from the vale'roses red, and nightingales:Take this moment to thy heart! When the moment shall depart, Long thou ‘Lt seek it as it fliest a hundred lamps and eyes.3. The heavenly rider passed;The dust rose in the air;He sped; but the dust he castle hanged there. Straight forward thy vision be, And gaze not left or night;His dust is here, and heir the Infinite.4. Who was he that saith immortal spirit is dead, Or how dared he say Hope's sun hath passed away? An enemy of the sun, Standing his roof upon, Bound up both his and cried: ‘Lo, the sun dies!'5.‘Who lifted up the spirit, Say, who is he?'‘Who gave in the beginnings life to me. Who Hewlett, life a falcon's, Awhile mine eyes, But presently shall lose met hunt my prize.'6. As salt resolved in the ocean was swallowed in God's sea, Past faith, past unbelieving, Past doubt, past certainty. Suddenly in my bosom star shone clear and bright;All the suns of heavenVanished in that star's light.flowers every nightBlossom in the sky;Peace in the Infinite;At peace am I. Sighs a hundredfoldFrom my heart arise;My heart, dark and cold, Flames with my sighs.7. He that is my souls' reposeRound my heart encircling goes, Round my heart and soul of bliss He encircling is. Laughing from my earthy Belize a tree I lift my head, For the Fount of Living mouthwashes round my earth.8. The breeze of the mornScatters musk in its train, Fragrance Borneo my fair love's lane. Ere the world wastes, Sleep no more: arise! The caravan hastes, The sweet scent dies.9. If life be gone, fresh life to you God offered, A life eternal to renewals life of death. The Fount of Immorality In Love is found;The come, and in this boundless season Love be drowned.10. Happy was IIN the pearl's heart to lie;Till, lashed by life's hurricane, Life a tossed wave I ran. The secret of the sea uttered thunderously;Like a spent cloud on the shore slept, and stirred no more.11. He set the world aflame, And laid me on the same;A hundred tongues of wiretapped round my pyre. And when the blazing tideEngulfed me, and I sighed, Upon my mouth in hastens hand He placed.12. Though every way I this whim to satisfy, His every answering words a pointed sword. See how the blood dripsFrom His finger-tips;Why does He find it Guido wash in my blood?13. Remembering Thy lip, The ruby red I kiss;Having not that to sip, My lips press this. Not to Thy far reaches my stretched hand, Wherefore kneeling, Embrace the land.14. I sought a soul in the second found a coral there;Beneath the foam for mean ocean was all laid bare. Into my heart's nightlong a narrow way groped; and lo! The light, An infinite land of day. 
 

 On the day I die, when I'm being carried toward the grave, don't weep. Don't say, ‘He's gone! He's gone!' Death has nothing to do with going away. The sun sets and the moon sets, but they're not gone. Deaths a coming together. The tomb looks like a prison, but it's really release into Union. The human seed goes down in the ground like a bucket into the well where Joseph is. It grows and comes up full of some unimagined beauty. Your mouth closes hairband immediately opens with a shout of joy there. 
 

 O Love, O pure deep Love, be here, be now, Be all — worlds dissolve into your stainless endless radiance, Frail living leaves burn with your brighter than cold stares -Make me your servant, your breath, your core. 
 

 In my heart you are the mirthful rayon are the caring, though my companions therapy is the world with the Now and with the You are both my EID and my Now todayاندر دل من مها دل افروز توئيياران هستند ليك دلسوز توئيشادند جهانيان به نوروز و به عيدعيد من و نوروز من امروز توئي 
 

 Both light and shadowier the dance of Love. Love has no cause; it is the astrolabe of God's secrets. Lover and Loving are inseparable and timeless. Although I may try to describe Love when I experience it I am speechless. Although I may try to write about Love am rendered helpless; my pen breaks and the paper slips away at the ineffable place where Lover, Loving and Loved are one. Every moment is made gloriously the light of Love. 
 

 When I die when my coffins being taken out you must never think am I missing this world don't shed any tears don't lament or feel sorry'm not falling into a monster's abyss when you seems corpse is being carried don't cry for my leaving'm not leaving'm arriving at eternal love when you leave man the grave don't say goodbye remember a grave is only a curtain for the paradise behind you'll only see me descending into a grave now watch me rise how can there be an end when the sun sets or the moon goes down it looks like the edit seems like a sunset but in reality it is a dawn when the grave locks you up that is when your soul is freed have you ever seen seed fallen to earth not rise with a new life why should you doubt the rise of a seed named human have you ever seen bucket lowered into a welcoming back empty why lament for a soul when it can come back like Joseph from the well when for the last time you close your mouth your words and soul will belong to the world FNO place no time 
 

 Emrôz CHO heir row, sharable Arab ma-g'SHA DAR andêsha-wo bar air Rabat Sad gone namâz-ast-o Roku`Castro sued Anna KE Jamal dost Baghdad Mira ----------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------Today, like every day, we are ruined, ruined (by 'wine'). Don't open the door of worry, but take up the lute! There are a hundred kinds of prayer, bowing, and prostration6 For the one whose prayer-niche, is the beauty of the Beloved. 
 

 Reason says, I will win him with my eloquence. Love says, I will win him with my silence. Soul says, How can I ever win when all I have is already his? He does not want, he does not worry, He does not seek a sublime state of euphoria -How then can I win dimwit sweet wine or gold? He is not bound by the senses -How then can I win dimwit all the riches of China? He is an angel, Though he appears in the form of a man. Even angels cannot fly in his presence -How then can I win NIMBY assuming a heavenly form? He flies on the wings of God, His food is pure light -How then can I win dimwit a loaf of baked bread? He is neither a merchant, nor a tradesman -How then can I win dimwit a plan of great profit? He is not blind, nor easily fooled -How then can I win NIMBY lying in bed as if gravely ill? I will go mad, pull out my hair, Grind my face in the dirt -How will this win him? He sees everything -how can I ever fool him? He is not a seeker of fame, A prince addicted to the praise of poets -How then can I win dimwit flowing rhymes and poetic verses? The glory of his unseen formally the whole universe then can I win dimwit a mere promise of paradise? I may cover the earth with roses, I may fill the ocean with tears, I may shake the heavens with praises -none of this will win him. There is only one way to win him, this Beloved of mine -Become his. 
 

 The springtime of Lovers has come, that this dust bowl may become a garden;the proclamation of heaven has come, that the bird of the soul may rise in flight. The sea becomes full of pearls, the salt marsh becomes sweet as author, the stone becomes a ruby from the mine, the body becomes wholly soul. 
 

 This we have nowise not imagination. This is not grief or joy. Not a judging state, or an elation, or sadness. Those come and go. This is the presence that doesn't. 
 

 An intellectual is all the time showing off. Lovers dissolve and become bewildered. Intellectuals try not to drown, while the whole purpose of love sis drowning. Intellectual invent ways to rest, and then lie downwind those beds. Lovers feel ashamed of comforting ideas. You’ve seen a glob of oil on water? That’s how a lover sits with intellectuals, there, but alone in a circle of himself. Some intellectual tries to give sound advice to a lover. All he hears back is, I love you. I love you. Love is musk. Don’t deny it when you smell the scent! Love is a tree. Lovers, the shade of the long branches. To the intellectual mind, a child must learn to grow up and be adult. In the station of love, you see old men getting younger and younger. Shams chose to live low in the roots for you. So now, he soars in the areas you sublimely articulating love! 
 

 Come, come, awaken all true drunkards! Pour the wine that is Life itself! O cup bearer of the Eternal Wine, Draw it now from Eternity's Jar! This wine doesn't run down the throat it looses torrents of words! Cupbearer, make my soul fragrant as musk, This noble soul of mine that knows the Invisible! Pour out the wine for the morning drinkers! Pour them this subtle and priceless musk! Pass it around to everyone in the assembly In the cups of your blazing drunken eyes! Pass a philter from your eyes to everyone else'sin a way the mouth knows nothing of, For this is the way cup bearers always offer holy and mysterious wine to lovers. Hurry, the eyes of every atom in Creation famished for this flaming-out of splendor! Procure for yourself this fragrance of husband with it split open the breast of heaven! The waves of the fragrance of this muskie all Josephs out of their minds forever! 
 

 Those who don't feel this Love pulling them like a river, those who don't drink dawn like a cup of spring water or take in sunset like supper, those who don't want to change, let them sleep. This Love is beyond the study of theology, that old trickery and hypocrisy. I you want to improve your mind that way, sleep on. I've given up on my brain. I've torn the cloth to shred sand thrown it away. If you're not completely naked, wrap your beautiful robe of words around you, and sleep. 
 

 Ay sari, Asian bad KE away dad title do DAR Andaman be-y-afzâ shade ya Cheshire Asian na-bâyast named ya mast-o Arab on, CHO SAR be-g'shadow ----------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------English Translation cup bearer, from that wine which you first gave, Toss in two [more] cups worth and increase (my) happiness. Either a taste of it must not be made known, Or, if you have opened the [jug's] top, you must make (me)drunk and ruined.  
 

 A stone I died and rose again a plant;A plant I died and rose an animal;I died an animal and was born a man. Why should I fear? What have I lost by death? 
 

 Rise, lovers, that we may go towards heaven; we have seen this world, so let us go to that world. No, no, for thought these two gardens are beautiful and fair, let us pass beyond these two, and go to that Gardener. Let us go prostrating to the sea like a torrent, then let us go foaming upon the face of the sea. Let us journey from this street of mourning to the wedding feast, let us go from this saffron face to the face of the Judas tree blossom. Trembling like a leaf and twig from fear of falling, our hearts are throbbing; let us go to the Abode of Security. There is no escape from pain, since we are in exile, and there is no escape from dust, seeing that we are going to a dust bowl. Like parrots green of wing and with fine pinions, let us become sugar-gatherers and go to the sugar-bed. These forms are signs of the sinless fashioner; hidden from the evil eye, come, let us go to the sinless. It is a road full of tribulation, but love is the guide, giving us instruction how we should go thereon; Though the shadow of the king’s grace surely protects, yet it is better that on that road we go with the caravan. We are like rain falling on a leaky roof; let us spring from the leak and go by that waterspout. We are crooked as a bow, for the string is in our own throats; when we become straight, then we will go like an arrow from the bow. We cower like mice in the house because of the cats; if we are lion’s whelps, let us go to that Lion. Let us make our soul a mirror in passion for a Joseph; let us go before Joseph’s beauty with a present. Let us be silent, that the giver of speech may say this; even as he shall say, so let us go. F 1713 “Street of Mourning”: The world, which has been called by many similar names, such as “the infidel’s paradise,” and symbolized by the false dawn, a carcass, a bath-stove and a tomb. (Cf. “World” in Nicholson’s index to Math.). 
 

 Can you find another market like this? Where, with your one rose you can buy hundreds of rose gardens? Where, for one seed get a whole wilderness? For one weak breath, a divine wind? You've been fearful of being absorbed in the ground, or drawn up by the air. Now, your waterbed lets grand drops into the ocean, where it came from. It no longer has the form it had, but it's still watershed essence is the same. This giving up is not a repenting. It's a deep honoring of yourself. When the ocean comes to you as a lover, marry at once, quickly, for God's sake! Don't postpone it! Existence has no better gift. No amount of searching will find this. A perfect falcon, for no reason has landed on your shoulder, and become yours. 
 

 Time's knife slides from the sheath, as fish from where it swims. Being closer and closer is the desire of the body. Don't wish for union! There's a closeness beyond that. Why would God want a second God? Fall in love in such a way that it frees you from any connecting. Love is the soul'slight, the taste of morning, no me, now, no claim of being. These words are the smoke the fire gives off as it absolves its defects, as eyes in silence, tears, face. Love cannot be said. 
 

 Your grief for what you've lost holds a mirror up to where you're bravely working. Expecting the worst, you look and instead, here's the joyful face you've been wanting to see. Your hand opens and closes and opens and closes. If it were always a fist or always stretched open, you would be paralyzed. Your deepest presence is in every small contracting and expand the two as beautifully balanced and coordinated as bird wings. 
 

 As regards feeling pain, like a hand cut in battle, consider the body a robe you wear. When you meet someone you love, do you kiss their clothes? Search out whose inside. Union with God is sweeter than body comforts. We have hands and feet different from these. Sometimes in dream we see them. That is not illusion. It's seeing truly. You do have a spirit body;don't dread leaving the physical one. Sometimes someone feels this truth so strongly that he or she can live in mountain solitude totally refreshed. The worried, heroic doings of men and women seem weary and futile to dervishes enjoying the light breeze of spirit. 
 

 Love has nothing to do with the five senses and the six directions:its goal is only to experience the attraction exerted by the Beloved. Afterwards, perhaps, permission will come from God:the secrets that ought to be told will be told with an eloquence nearer to the understanding of these subtle confusing allusions. The secret is partner with none but the know er of the secret:in the skeptic's earth secret is no secret at all. 
 

 Out of your love the fire of youth will rise. In the chest, visions of the soul will rise. If you are going to kill me, kill me, it is alright. When the friend kills, a new life will rise. 
 

 A certain person came to the Friend's door and knocked.' Who's there?'' It's me.' The Friend answered, 'Go away. There's no place for raw meat at this table.' The individual went wandering for a year. Nothing but the fire of separation can change hypocrisy and ego. The person returned completely cooked, walked up and down in front of the Friend's house, gently knocked.' Who is it?'' You.'' Please come in, my self, there's no place in this house for two. The doubled end of the thread is not what goes through the eye of the needle. It's a single-pointed, fined-down, thread end, not a big ego-beast with baggage.' 
 

 Soul receives from soul that knowledge, therefore not by book nor from tongue. If knowledge of mysteries come after emptiness of mind, that is illumination of heart. 
 

 Reason says, I will beguile him with the tongue.”; Love says,“Be silent. I will beguile him with the soul.” The soul says to the heart, “Go, do not laugh at me and yourself. What is there that is not his, that I may beguile him thereby?” He is not sorrowful and anxious and seeking oblivion that May beguile him with wine and a heavy measure. The arrow of his glance needs not a bow that I should beguile the shaft of his gaze with a bow. He is not prisoner of the world, fettered to this world of earth, that I should beguile him with gold of the kingdom of the world. He is an angel, though in form he is a man; he is not lustful that I should beguile him with women. Angels start away from the house wherein this form is, so how should I beguile him with such a form and likeness? He does not take a flock of horses, since he flies on wings; his food is light, so how should I beguile him with bread? He is not a merchant and trafficker in the market of the world that I should beguile him with enchantment of grain and loss. He is not veiled that I should make myself out sick and utter sighs, to beguile him with lamentation. I will bind my head and bow my head, for I have got out offhand; I will not beguile his compassion with sickness or fluttering. Hair by hair he sees my crookedness and feigning; what’hidden from him that I should beguile him with anything hidden. He is not a seeker of fame, a prince addicted to poets, that Should beguile him with verses and lyrics and flowing poetry. The glory of the unseen form is too great for me to beguile it with blessing or Paradise. Shams-e Tabriz, who is his chosen and beloved–perchance I will beguile him with this same pole of the age. 
 

 You personify God's message. You reflect the King's face. There is nothing in the universe that you are everything you want, look for it within yourself-you are that. 
 

 All day I think about it, then at night I say it. Where did I come from, and what am I supposed to be doing? I have no idea. My soul is from elsewhere, I'm sure of that, and I intend to end up there. This drunkenness began in some other tavern. When I get back around to that place, I'll be completely sober. Meanwhile, I'm like a bird from another continent, sitting in this aviary. The day is coming when I fly off, but who is it now in my ear who hears my voice? Who says words with my mouth? Who looks out with my eyes? What is the soul? I cannot stop asking. If I could taste one sip of an answer, I could break out of this prison for drunks. I didn't come here of my own accord, and I can't leave that way. Whoever brought me here, will have to take me home. This poetry. I never know what I'm going to say. I don't plan it. When I'm outside the saying of it, I get very quiet and rarely speak at all. 
 

 We are as the flute, and the music in us is from thee;we are as the mountain and the echo in us is from thee. We are as pieces of chess engaged in victory and defeat:our victory and defeat is from thee, O thou whose qualities are comely! Who are we, O Thou soul of our souls, that we should remain in being beside thee? We and our existences are really non-existence;thou art the absolute Being which manifests the perishable. We all are lions, but lions on a banner:because of the wind they are rushing onward from moment to moment. Their onward rush is visible, and the wind is unseen:may that which is unseen not fail from us! Our wind whereby we are moved and our being are of thy gift; our whole existence is from thy bringing into being. 
 

 This closeness is worth more than a thousand lives. This freedom is worth more than all the lands on earth. To be one with the truth for just a moment, Is worth more than the world and life itself. 
 

 I was dead, then alive. Weeping, then laughing. The power of love came into me, and I became fierce like a lion, then tender like the evening star. He said, ‘You’re not mad enough. You don’t belong in this house.’ I went wild and had to be tied up. He said, ‘Still not wild enough to stay with us!’ I broke through another layer into joyfulness. He said, ‘It's not enough.’ I died. He said, ‘You are a clever little man, full of fantasy and doubting.’ I plucked out my feathers and became a fool. He said, ‘Now you are the candle for this assembly.’ But I’m no candle. Look! I’m scattered smoke He said, ‘You are the Sheikh, the guide.’ But I’m not a teacher. I have no power. He said, ‘You already have wings. I cannot give you wings.’ But I wanted his wings. I felt like some flightless chicken. Then new events said to me, ‘Don’t move. A sublime generosity incoming towards you.’ And old love said, ‘Stay with me.’ I said, ‘I will.’ You are the fountain of the sun’s light. I am a willow shadow on the ground. You make my raggedness silky. The soul at dawn is like darkened water that slowly begins to say Thank you, thank you. Then at sunset, again, Venus graduallyChanges into the moon and then the whole night sky. This comes of smiling back at your smile. The chess master says nothing, other than moving the silent chess piece. That I am part of the ploys of this game makes me amazingly happy. 
 

 Until you've found pain, you won't reach the Corentin you've given up life, you won't unite with the supreme soulUntil you've found fire inside yourself, like the Friend, You won't reach the spring of life, like Their. 
 

 All night, a man called ‘Allah'Until his lips were bleeding. Then the Devil said, ‘Hey! Mr Gullible! How comes you've been calling all highland never once heard Allah say, ‘Here, I am'? You call out so earnestly and, in reply, what? I'll tell you what. Nothing!' The man suddenly felt empty and abandoned. Depressed, he threw himself on the grounded fell into a deep sleep. In a dream, he met Abraham, who asked, ‘Why are you regretting praising Allah?' The man said, ‘ I called and called Allah never replied, ‘Here I am.' Abraham explained, ‘Allah has said, ‘You're calling my name is My reply.You're longing for Me is My message to you. All your attempts to reach Mere in reality My attempts to reach you. Your fear and love are a noose to catch Me. In the silence surrounding every call of ‘Allah'Waits a thousand replies of ‘Here I am.' 
 

 Thirst is angry with water. Hunger bitter with bread. The cave wants nothing to do with the sun. This is dumb, the self- defeating way we've been. A gold mine is calling us into its temple. Instead, we bend and keep picking up rocks from the ground. Every thing has a shine like gold, but we should turn to the source! The origin is what we truly are. I add a little vinegar to the honey I give. The bite of scolding makes ecstasy more familiar. But look, fish, you're already in the ocean:just swimming there makes you friend with glory. What are these grudges about? You are Benjamin. Joseph has put a gold cup in your grain sack and accused you of being a thief. Now he draws you aside and says,'You are my brother. I am a prayer. You're the amen.' We move in eternal regions, yet worry about property here. This is the prayer of each: You are the source of my life. You separate essence from mud. You honor my soul. You bring rivers from the mountain springs. You brighten my eyes. The wine you offer takes me out of myself into the self we share. Doing that is religion. 
 

 There is a way between voice and presence where information flows. In disciplined silence it opens. With wandering talk it closes. 
 

 The minute I heard my first love story started looking for you, not knowing how blind that was. Lovers don’t finally meet somewhereThey’re in each other all along. 
 

 Who makes these changes? I shoot an arrow right. It lands left. I ride after a deer and find myselfChased by a hog. I plot to get what I wanted end up in prison. I dig pits to trap motherland fall in. I should be suspicious what I want. 
 

 O you who've gone on pilgrimage -where are you, where, oh where? Here, here is the Beloved! Oh come now, come, oh come! Your friend, he is your neighbor, he is next to your wall -You, erring in the desert — what air of love is this? If you'd see the Beloved'form without any form -You are the house, the master, You are the Kaaba, you! . . . Where is a bunch of roses, if you would be this garden? Where, one soul's pearly essence when you're the Sea of God? That's true — and yet your troubles may turn to treasures rich -How sad that you yourself veil the treasure that is yours! 
 

 Every night Thou freest our spirits from the band its snare, making them pure as based tablets. Every night spirits are released from this cage, And set free, neither lording it nor lorded over. At night prisoners are unaware of their prison, At night kings are unaware of their majesty. Then there is no thought or care for loss or gain, No regard to such a one or such a one. The state of the 'Know er' is such as this, even when awake. God says,4 'Thou wouldst deem him awake though asleep, Sleeping to the affairs of the world, day and night, Like a pen in the directing hand of the writer. He who sees not the hand which effects the writingFancies the effect proceeds from the motion of the pen. If the 'Know er' revealed the particulars of this state,'Would rob the vulgar of their sensual sleep. His soul wanders in the desert that has no similitude;Like his body, his spirit is enjoying perfect rest;Freed from desire of eating and drinking, Like a bird escaped from cage and snare. But when he is again beguiled into the snare, He cries for help to the Almighty. 
 

 This is love: to fly toward a secret sky, to cause a hundred veils to fall each moment. First, to let go of live. In the end, to take a step without feet; to regard this world as invisible, and to disregard what appears to be the self. Heart, I said, what a gift it has been to enter this circle of lovers, to see beyond seeing itself, to reach and feel within the breast. 
 

 In the waters of purity, I melted like saltwater blasphemy, nor faith, nor conviction, nor doubt remained. In the center of my heart a star has appeared all the seven heavens have become lost in it. 
 

 O lovers, lovers it is time to set out from the world. I hear a drum in my soul's ear coming from the depths of the stars. Our camel driver is at work; the caravan is being readied. He asks that we forgive him for the disturbance he has caused us, He asks why we travelers are asleep. Everywhere the murmur of departure; the stars, like candles thrust at us from behind blue veils, and as if to make the invisible plain, a wondrous people have come forth. 
 

 How does a part of the world leave the world? How does wetness leave water?Don't try to put out fire by throwing on more fire! Don't wash a wound with blood. No matter how fast you run, your shadow keeps up. Sometimes it's in front! Only full overhead sun diminishes your shadow. But that shadow has been serving you. What hurts you, blesses you. Darkness is your candle. Your boundaries are your quest. I could explain this, but it will break the glass cover on your heart, and there's no fixing that. You must have shadow and light source both. Listen, and lay your head under the tree of awe. When from that tree feathers and wings sprout on you, be quieter than a dove. Don't even open your mouth for even a coo. 
 

 The sky was Libby the splendor of the moons powerful fell to the ground Your love has made me sure I am ready to forsake this worldly life and surrender to the magnificence of you're Being 
 

 I swear, since seeing Your face, the whole world is fraud and fantasy garden is bewildered as to what is lea for blossom. The distracted bird scan't distinguish the birdseed from the snare. A house of love with no limits, a presence more beautiful than Venus or the moon, a beauty whose image fills the mirror with the heart. 
 

 Late, by myself, in the boat of myself, no light and no land anywhere, cloudcover thick. I try to stay just above the surface, yet I'm already under and living with the ocean. 
 

 All day I think about it, then at night I say it. Where did I come from, and what am I supposed to be doing? I have no idea. My soul is from elsewhere, I'm sure of that, and I intend to end up there. This drunkenness began in some other tavern. When I get back around to that place, I'll be completely sober. Meanwhile, I'm like a bird from another continent, sitting in this aviary. The day is coming when I fly off, but who is it now in my ear who hears my voice? Who says words with my mouth? Who looks out with my eyes? What is the soul? I cannot stop asking. If I could taste one sip of an answer, I could break out of this prison for drunks. I didn't come here of my own accord, and I can't leave that way. Whoever brought me here will have to take me home. This poetry, I never know what I'm going to say. I don't plan it. When I'm outside the saying of it, I get very quiet and rarely speak at all. 
 

 Lovers share a sacred decree –to seek the Beloved. They roll head over heels, rushing toward the Beautiful One like a torrent of water. In truth, everyone is a shadow of the Beloved –Our seeking is His seeking, Our words are His words. At times, we flow toward the Beloved like a dancing stream. At times, we are still water held in His pitcher. At times, we boil in a pot turning to vapor –that is the job of the Beloved. He breathes into my ear until my soul takes on His fragrance. He is the soul of my soul –How can I escape? But why would any soul in this world want to escape from the Beloved? He will melt your pride making you thin as a strand of hair, Yet do not trade, even for both worlds, One strand of His hair. We search for Him here and there while looking right at Him. Sitting by His side we ask,'O Beloved, where is the Beloved?' Enough with such questions! —Let silence take you to the core of life. All your talk is worthlessWhen compared to one whisper of the Beloved. 
 

 The breeze at dawn has secrets to tell you. Don't go back to sleep. You must ask for what you really want. Don't go back to sleep. People are going back and forth across the doorsillwhere the two worlds touch. The door is round and open. Don't go back to sleep. 
 

 There is a community of the spirit. Join it, and feel the delight of walking in the noisy street and being the noise. Drink all your passion, and be a disgrace. Close both eyes to see with the other eye. 
 

 Don't go anywhere without me. Let nothing happen in the sky apart from me, or on the ground, in this world or that world, without my being in its happening. Vision, see nothing I don't see. Language, say nothing. The way the night knows itself with the moon, be that with me. Be the rose nearest to the thorn that I am. I want to feel myself in you when you taste food, in the arc of your mallet when you work, when you visit friends, when you group on the roof by yourself at night. There's nothing worse than to walk out along the street without you. I don't know where I'm going. You're the road, and the know er of roads, more than maps, more than love. 
 

 He said, 'Who is at my door?' I said, 'Your humble servant.' He said, 'What business do you have?' I said, 'To greet you, 0 Lord.' He said, 'How long will you journey on?' I said, 'Until you stop me.' He said, 'How long will you boil in the fire?' I said, 'Until I am pure.' This is my oath of love. For the sake of love gave up wealth and position.' He said, 'You have pleaded your case but you have no witness.' I said, 'My tears are my witness;the pallor of my face is my proof.' He said, 'Your witness has no credibility;your eyes are too wet to see.' I said, 'By the splendor of your justice my eyes are clear and faultless.' He said, 'What do you seek?' I said, 'To have you as my constant friend.' He said, 'What do you want from me?' I said, 'Your abundant grace.' He said, 'Who was your companion on the journey? I said, 'The thought of you, 0 King.' He said, 'What called you here?' I said, 'The fragrance of your wine.' He said, 'What brings you the most fulfillment?' I said, 'The company of the Emperor.' He said, 'What do you find there?' I said, 'A hundred miracles.' He said, 'Why is the palace deserted?' I said, 'They all fear the thief.' He said, 'Who is the thief?' I said, 'The one who keeps me from -you. He said, 'Where is there safety?' I said, 'In service and renunciation.' He said, 'What is there to renounce?' I said, 'The hope of salvation.' He said, 'Where is there calamity?' I said, 'In the presence of your love.' He said, 'How do you benefit from this life?' I said, 'By keeping true to myself it is time for silence. If I told you about His true essence would fly from your self and be gone, and neither door nor roof could hold you back! 
 

 I have been tricked by flying too close to what I thought I loved. Now the candle flame is out, the wine spilled, and the lovers have withdrawn somewhere beyond my squinting. The amount I thought I'd won, I've lost. My prayers become bitter and all about blindness. How wonderful it was to be for a while with those who surrender. Others only turn their faces on way, then another, like pigeon in flight. I have known pigeons who fly in a nowhere, and birds that eat painlessness, and tailor who sew beautiful clothes by tearing them to pieces. 
 

 218I have a fire for you in my mouth, but I have a hundred seals on my tongue. The flames which I have in my heart would make one mouthful of both worlds. Though the entire world should pass away, without the world I possess the kingdom of a hundred worlds. Caravans which are loaded with sugar I have in motion forth Egypt of nonexistence. The drunkenness of love makes me unaware whether I have profit of loss therefrom. The body’s eye was scattering pearls because of love, till now have a pearl-scattering soul. I am not housebound, for like Jesus I have a home in the fourthHeaven. Thanks be to Him who gives soul to the body; if the soul should depart, yet I have the soul of the soul. Seek from me that which Shams-e Tabriz has bestowed, for I have the same. 
 

 Your grief for what you've lost holds a mirror up to where you're bravely working. Expecting the worst, you look and instead, here's the joyful face you've been wanting to see. Your hand opens and closes and opens and closes. If it were always a fist or always stretched open, you would be paralyzed. Your deepest presence is in every small contracting and expand the two as beautifully balanced and coordinated as bird wings. 
 

 What the material world values doe snot shine the same in the truth of the soul. You have been interested in your shadow. Look instead directly at the sun. What can we know by just watching the time-and-space shapes of each other? Someone half awake in the night sees imaginary dangers; the morning star rises; the horizon grows defined; people become friends in a moving caravan. Night birds may think daybreak a kind of darkness, because that's all they know. It's a fortunate bird who's not intrigued with evening, who flies in the sun we call Shams. 
 

 Love is reckless; not reason. Reason seeks a profit. Love comes on strong, consuming herself, unabashed. Yet, in the midst of suffering, Love proceeds like a millstone, hard surfaced and straightforward. Having died of self-interest, she risks everything and asks for nothing. Love gambles away every gift God bestows. Without cause God gave us Being;without cause, give it back again. 
 

 I see so deeply within myself. Not needing my eyes, I can see everything clearly. Why would I want to bother my eyes against that I see the world through His eyes? 
 

 I don't need companion who is nasty sad and sour the one who dislike a grave dark depressing and bitter a sweetheart is a mirror friend a delicious carat isn't worth spending an hour with anyone else a companion who ISIN love only with the self has five distinct characters stone heartedunsure of every step lazy and disinterested keeping a poisonous face the more this companion waits around the more bitter everything will get just like a vinegar getting more sour with time enough is said about sour and bitter faces heart filled with desire for sweetness and tender souls must not waste itself with unsavory matters 
 

 If you show patience, I'll rid you of this virtue. If you fall asleep, I'll rub the sleep from your eyes. If you become a mountain, I'll melt you in fire. And if you become an ocean, I'll drink all your water. 
 

 'I am only the house of your beloved, not the beloved herself:true love is for the treasure, not for the coffer that contains it.' The real beloved is that one who is unique, who is your beginning and your end. When you find that one, you'll no longer expect anything else:that is both the manifest and the mystery. That one is the lord of states of feeling, dependent on none;month and year are slaves to that moon. When he bids the 'state,'it does His bidding;when that one wills, bodies become spirit. 
 

 217 What hidden sweetness there is in this emptiness of the belly! Man is surely like a lute, no more and no less; For if, for instance, the belly of the lute becomes full, no lament high or low will arise from that full lute. If your brain and belly are on fire through fasting, because of the fire every moment a lament will arise from your breast. Every moment you will burn a thousand veils by that fire; you will mount a hundred steps with zeal and endeavor. Become empty of belly, and weep entreatingly like the reed pipe; become empty of belly, and tell secrets with the reed pen. If your belly is full at the time of concourse, it will bring Satan in place of your reason, an idol in place of the Kaaba. When you keep the fast, good habits gather together before you like slaves and servants and retinue. Keep the fast, for that is Solomon’s ring; give not the ring to the div, destroy not your kingdom. Even if your kingdom has gone from your head and your army has fled, your army will rise up, pennants flying above them. The table arrived from heaven to the tents of the fast, by the intervention of the prayers of Jesus, son of Mary. In the fast, be expectant of the table of bounty, for the table of bounty is better than the broth of cabbages. 
 

 I am a sculptor, a molder of form. In every moment I shape an idol. But then, in front of you, I melt them down can rouse a hundred form sand fill them with spirit, but when I look into your face, I want to throw them in the fire. My souls spill into yours and is blended. Because my soul has absorbed your fragrance, I cherish it. Every drop of blood I spill informs the earth, I merge with my Beloved when I participate in love. In this house of mud and water, my heart has fallen to ruins. Enter this house, my Love, or let me leave. 
 

 There is a candle in the heart of man, waiting to be kindled. In separation from the Friend, there is a cut waiting to restitched. O, you who are ignorant of endurance and the burning fire of love--Love comes of its own free will, it can't be learned in any school. 
 

 If anyone asks you how the perfect satisfaction of all our sexual wanting will look, lift your face and say, Like this. When someone mentions the gracefulness of the night sky, climb up on the roof and dance and say, Like this. If anyone wants to know what 'spirit' is, or what 'God’s fragrance' means, lean your head toward him or her. Keep your face there close. Like this. When someone quotes the old poetic image about clouds gradually uncovering the moon, slowly loosen not by knot the strings of your robe. Like this. If anyone wonders how Jesus raised the dead, don’t try to explain the miracle. Kiss me on the lips. Like this. Like this. When someone asks what it means to 'die for love,' point here. If someone asks how tall I am, frown and measure with your fingers the space between the creases on your forehead.This is tall. The soul sometimes leaves the body, the returns. When someone doesn’t believe that, walk back into my house. Like this. When lovers moan, they’re telling our story. Like this. I am a sky where spirits live. Stare into this deepening blue, while the breeze says a secret. Like this. When someone asks what there is to do, light the candle in his hand. Like this. How did Joseph’s scent come to Jacob? Huuuuu. How did Jacob’s sight return? Huuuu. A little wind cleans the eyes. Like this. When Shams comes back from Tabriz, he’ll put just his head around the edge of the door to surprise unlike this. 
 

 I have got out of my own control, I have fallen into unconsciousness; in my utter unconsciousness how joyful I am with myself! The darling sewed up my eyes so that I might not see other than him, so that suddenly I opened my eyes on his face. My soul fought with me saying, “Do not pain me”; I said, “Take your divorce.” She said, “Grant it”; I granted it. When my mother saw on my cheek the brand of your love she cut my umbilical cord on that, the moment I was born. If I travel to heaven and read the Tablet of the Unseen, O you who are my soul’s salvation, without you how I am ruined! When you cast aside the veil the dead become alive; the light of your face reminded me of the Covenant of Last. When I became lost, O soul, through love of the king of the Paris, hidden from self and creatures, I am as if peri-born myself. I said to the Tabriz of Shams-e Din, “O body, what are you?” Body said, “Earth”; Soul said, “I am distraught like the wind.” 
 

 When you do things from your soul, you feel a river moving in you, a joy. When actions come from another section, the feeling disappears. Don't let others lead you. They may be blind or, worse, vultures. Reach for the rope of God. And what is that? Putting aside self-will. Because of willfulness people sit in jail, the trapped bird's wings are tied, fish sizzle in the skillet. The anger of police is willfulness. You've seen a magistrate inflict visible punishment. Now see the invisible. If you could leave your selfishness, you would see how you've been torturing your soul. We are born and live inside black water in a well. How could we know what an open field of sunlight is? Don't insist on going where you think you want to go. Ask the way to the spring. Your living pieces will form a harmony. There is a moving palace that floats in the air with balconies and clear water flowing through, infinity everywhere, yet contained under a single tent. 
 

 I was dead, then alive. Weeping, then laughing. The power of love came into me, and I became fierce like a lion, then tender like the evening star. He said, ‘You’re not mad enough. You don’t belong in this house.’ I went wild and had to be tied up. He said, ‘Still not wild enough to stay with us!’ I broke through another layer into joyfulness. He said, ‘It's not enough.’ I died. 
 

 How long will you think about this painful life? How long will you think about this harmful world? The only thing it can take from you is your body. Don't say all this rubbish and stop thinking. 
 

 Everything other than love for the most beautiful God though it is sugar- eating. What is agony of the spirit? To advance toward death without seizing hold of the Water of Life. 
 

 The Khalifa said to Leila, “Art thou really she For whom Maj nun lost his head and went distracted? Thou art not fairer than many other fair ones.” She replied, “Be silent; thou art not Maj nun!” If thou hadst Maj nun's eyes, The two worlds would be within thy view. Thou art in thy senses, but Maj nun is beside himself. In love to be wide awake is treason. The more a man is awake, the more he sleeps (to love); His (critical) wakefulness is worse than slumbering. Our wakefulness fetters our spirits, Then our souls are a prey to divers whims, Thoughts of loss and gain and fears of misery. They retain not purity, nor dignity, nor luster, Nor aspiration to soar heavenwards. That one is really sleeping who hankers after each whim And holds parley with each fancy. 
 

 There is a life-force within your soul, seek that life. There is a gem in the mountain of your body, seek that mine. O traveler, if you are in search of That Don't look outside, look inside yourself and seek That. 
 

 In the end, the mountains of imagination were nothing but a house. And this grand life of mine was nothing but an excuse. You've been hearing my story so patiently for a lifetime hear this: it was nothing but a fairy tale. 
 

 There are two kinds of intelligence: one acquired, as a child in school memorizes facts and concepts from books and from what the teacher says, collecting information from the traditional sciences as well as from the new sciences. With such intelligence you rise in the world. You get ranked ahead or behind other sin regard to your competence in retaining information. You stroll with this intelligence in and out of fields of knowledge, getting always mo remarks on your preserving tablets. There is another kind of tablet, one already completed and preserved inside you. A spring overflowing its springbok. A freshness in the center of the chest. This other intelligence does not turn yellow or stagnate. It's fluid, and it doesn't move from outside to inside through conduits of plumbing-learning. This second knowing is a fountainhead from within you, moving out. 
 

 You who are not kept anxiously awake for love's sake, sleep on. In restless search for that river, we hurry along;you whose heart such anxiety has not disturbed, sleep on. Love's place is out beyond the many sects;since you love choosing and excluding, sleep on. Love's dawn cup is our sunrise, his dusk our supper;you whose longing is for sweets and whose passion is for supper, sleep on. In search of the philosopher's stone, we are melting like copper;you whose philosopher's stone is cushion and pillow, sleep on. I have abandoned hope for my brain and head; you who wish for a clear head and fresh brain, sleep on. I have torn speech like a tattered robe and let words go;you who are still dressed in your clothes, sleep on. 
 

 In love, aside from sipping the wine of timelessness, nothing else exists. There is no reason for living except for giving one's life. I said, 'First I know you, then I die.' He said, 'For the one who knows Me, there is no dying.' 
 

 Out beyond ideas of wrongdoing and right doing, there is a field. I'll meet you there. When the soul lies down in that grass, the world is too full to talk about. Ideas, language, even the phrase each other doesn't make any sense 
 

 One day you will look back and laugh at yourself. You'll say, ‘ I can't believe I was so asleep! How did I ever forget the truth? How ridiculous to believe that sadness and sickness anything other than bad dreams.' 
 

 I was dead came alive was tears became laughter all because of love when it arrived my temporal life from then unchanged to eternal love said to Mao are not crazy enough you don'tfit this house went and became crazy crazy enough to be in chains love said you are not intoxicated enough you don'tfit the group went and got drunk drunk enough to overflow with light-headednesslove said you are still too clever filled with imagination and skepticism went and became gullible and in fright pulled away from it all love said you are a candle attracting everyone gathering every one around you am no more candle spreading light gather no more crowd sand like smoke am all scattered now love said you are a teacher you are a headland for everyone you are a leader am no Moreno a teacher not a leader just a servant to your wishes love said you already have your own wings will not give you more feather sand then my heart pulled itself apart and filled to the brim with a new light overflowed with fresh life now even the heavens are thankful that because of love have become the giver of light 
 

 In the prologue to the Masai Rum hailed Love and its sweet madness that heals all infirmities, and he exhorted the reader to burst the bonds to silver and gold to be free. The Beloved is all in all and is only veiled by the lover. Rum identified the first cause of all things as God and considered all second causes subordinate to that. Human minds recognize the second causes, but only prophets perceive the action of the first cause. One story tells of a clever rabbit who warned the lion about another lion and showed the lion his own image in a well, causing him to attack it and drown. After delivering his companions from the tyrannical lion, the rabbit urges them to engage in the more difficult warfare against their own inward lusts. In a debate between trusting God and human exertion, Rum quoted the prophet Muhammad as saying, “Trust in God, yet tie the camel's leg.”8 He also mentioned the adage that the worker is the friend of God; so in trusting in providence one need not neglect to use means. Exerting oneself can be giving thanks for God's blessings; but he asked if fatalism shows gratitude. God is hidden and has no opposite, not seen by us yet seeing us. Form is born of the formless but ultimately returns to the formless. An arrow shot by God cannot remain in the air but must return to God. Rum reconciled God's agency with human free will and found the divine voice in the inward voice. Those in close communion with God are free, but the one who does not love is fettered by compulsion. God is the agency and first cause of our actions, but human will as the second cause finds recompense in hell or with the Friend. God is like the soul, and the world is like the body. The good and evil of bodies comes from souls. When the sanctuary of true prayer is revealed to one, it is shameful to turn back to mere formal religion. Rum confirmed Muhammad's view that women hold dominion over the wise and men of heart; but violent fools, lacking tenderness, gentleness, and friendship, try to hold the upper hand over women, because they are swayed by their animal nature. The human qualities of love and tenderness can control the animal passions. Rum concluded that woman is a ray of God and the Creator's self. When the Light of God illumines the inner person, one is freed from effects and has no need of signs for the assurance of love. Beauty busies itself with a mirror. Since not being is the mirror of being, the wise choose the self-abnegation of not being so that being may be displayed in that not being. The wealthy show their liberality on the poor, and the hungry are the mirror of bread. Those recognizing and confessing their defects are hastening toward perfection; but whoever considers oneself perfect already is not advancing. The poet suggested driving out this sickness of arrogance with tears from the heart. The fault of the devil (Iblis) was in thinking himself better than others, and the same weakness lurks in the soul of all creatures. Heart knowledge bears people up in friendship, but body knowledge weighs them down with burdens. Rum wrote how through love all things become better. Doing kindness is the game of the good, who seek to alleviate suffering in the world. Wherever there is a pain, a remedy is sent. Call on God so that the love of God may manifest. Rum recommended the proverb that the moral way is not to find fault with others but to be admonished by their bad example. The mosque built in the hearts of the saints is the place for all worship, for God dwells there. Rum began the third book of his Masai as follows: In the Name of God the Compassionate, the Merciful. The sciences of (Divine) Wisdom are God's armies, wherewith He strengthens the spirits of the initiates, and purifies their knowledge from the defilement of ignorance, their justice from the defilement of iniquity, their generosity from the defilement of ostentation, and their forbearance from the defilement of foolishness; and brings near to them whatever was far from them in respect of the understanding of the state hereafter; and makes easy to them whatever was hard to them in respect of obedience (to Him) and zealous endeavor (to serve Him).9 A sage warns travelers that if they kill a baby elephant to eat, its parents will probably track them down and kill them; yet they do so, although one refrains from the killing and eating. As they sleep, a huge elephant smells their breath and kills all those who had eaten the young elephant but spares the one who had abstained. From foul breath the stench of pride, lust, and greed rises to heaven. Pain may be better than dominion in the world so that one may call on God in secret; the cries of the sorrowful come from burning hearts. Rum also told the story of the Hindus feeling the different parts of an elephant in a dark room. He emphasized that in substance all religions are one and the same, because all praises are directed to God's light. They err only because they have mistaken opinions. Sinners and criminals betray themselves especially in times of passion and angry talk. Prophets warn you of hidden dangers the worldly cannot see. Humans have the ability to engage in any action, but for Rum worship of God is the main object of human existence. Rum wrote that Sufism is to find joy in the heart whenever distress and care assail it. He believed the power of choice is like capital yielding profit, but he advised us to remember well the day of final accounting. Many of his stories are designed to show the difference between what is self-evident by experience and what is inferred through the authority of others. His philosophy of evolution of consciousness is encapsulated in the following verses: I died as inanimate matter and arose a plant, I died as a plant and rose again an animal. I died as an animal and arose a man. Why then should I fear to become less by dying? I shall die once again as a man To rise an angel perfect from head to foot! Again when I suffer dissolution as an angel, I shall become what passes the conception of man! Let me then become non-existent, for non-existence Sings to me in organ tones, “To him shall we return.”10 When the love of God arises in your heart, without doubt God also feels love for you. The soul loves wisdom, knowledge, and exalted things; but the body desires houses, gardens, vineyards, food, and material goods. Rum also believed that there is no absolute bad; the evils in the world are only relative. A serpent's poison protects its own life; but in relation to a person it can mean death. When what is hateful leads you to your beloved, it immediately becomes agreeable to you. Solomon built the temple by hiring workers, for humans can be controlled by money. Men are as demons, and lust of wealth their chain, Which drags them forth to toil in shop and field. This chain is made of their fears and anxieties. Deem not that these men have no chain upon them. It causes them to engage in labor and the chase, It forces them to toil in mines and on the sea, It urges them towards good and towards evil.11 Rum warned against bad friends who can be like weeds in the temple of the heart; for if a liking for bad friends grows in you, they can subvert you and your temple. He also warned against the judges who confine their view to externals and base their decisions on outward appearances; these heretics have secretly shed the blood of many believers. Partial reason cannot see beyond the grave; but true reason looks beyond to the day of judgment and thus is able to steer a better course in this world. Therefore, it is better for those with partial reason to follow the guidance of the saints. In the fifth book of the Masai Rum included several stories to illustrate why one should cut down the duck of gluttony, the cock of concupiscence, the peacock of ambition and ostentation, and the crow of bad desires. The story of how Muhammad converted a glutton who drank the milk of seven goats and then made a mess after being locked in a room shows the humility of the prophet in cleaning up the mess himself. He concluded that the infidels eat with seven bellies but the faithful with one. The peacock catches people by displaying itself. Pursuing the vulgar is like hunting a pig; the fatigue is extensive, and it is unlawful to eat it. Love alone is worth pursuing, but how can God be contained in anyone's trap? The most deadly evil eye is the eye of self-approval. The greed of the gluttonous duck is limited as is the greed of the lusty snake; but the peacock's ambition to rule can be many times as great. Worldly wealth and even accomplishments can be enemies to the spiritual life. These are the human trials that create virtue. If there were no temptations, there could be no virtue. Abraham killed the crow of desire in response to the command of God so that he would not crave anything else, and he killed the cock to subjugate pernicious desires. Rum suggested that God uses prophets and saints as mirrors to instruct people while the divine remains hidden behind the mirrors. People hear the words from the mirrors but are ignorant that they are spoken by universal reason or the word of God. Ultimately God will place in people's hands their books of greed and generosity, of sin and piety, whatever they have practiced. When they awake on that morning, all the good and evil they have done will recur to them. After enumerating their faults, God in the end will grant them pardon as a gift. To tell an angry person of faults, one must have a face as hard as a mirror to reflect the ugliness without fear or favor. Like 'Attar, Rum wrote of the mystic's attaining annihilation, but he explained that the end and object of negation is to attain the subsequent affirmation just as the cardinal principle of Islam “There is no God” concludes with the affirmation “but God,” and to the mystic this really means “There is nothing but God.” Negation of the individual self clears the way for apprehending the existence of the One. The intoxication of life in pleasures and occupations which veil the truth should pass into the spiritual intoxication that lifts people to the beatific vision of eternal truth. In the Discourses Rum presented his teachings more directly. In the first chapter he suggested that the true scholar should serve God above the prince so that in their encounters the scholar will give more than take, thus making princes visitors of scholars rather than the reverse. Rum advised stripping prejudices from one's discrimination faculty by seeing a friend in Faith, which knows who is one's true friend. Those who spend time with the undiscriminating have that faculty deteriorate and are unable to recognize a true friend in the Faith. Rum taught the universal principle that if you have done evil, you have done it to yourself, for how could wickedness reach out to affect God? Yet when you become straight, all your crookedness will disappear; so beware but have hope! Those who assist an oppressor will find that God gives the oppressor power over them. God loves us by reproving us. One reproves friends, not a stranger. So long as you perceive longing and regret within yourself, that is proof that God loves and cares for you. If you perceive a fault in your brother, that fault is also within yourself. The learned are like mirrors. Get rid of that fault in yourself, for what distresses you about the other person distresses you inside yourself. Rum taught that all things in relation to God are good and perfect, but in relation to humans some things are considered bad. To a king prisons and gallows are part of the ornament of his kingdom; but Rum asked if to his people they are the same as robes of honor. He argued that faith is better than prayer, because faith without prayer is beneficial, but prayer without faith is not. Rum explained to his disciples that the desire to see the Master may prevent them from perceiving the Master without a veil. He went on, So it is with all desires and affections, all loves and fondness es which people have for every variety of thing- father, mother, heaven, earth, gardens, palaces, branches of knowledge, acts, things to eat and drink. The man of God realizes that all these desires are the desire for God, and all those things are veils. When men pass out of this world and behold that King without those veils, then they will realize that all these things were veils and coverings, their quest being in reality that One Thing. All difficulties will then be resolved, and they will hear in their hearts the answer to all questions and all problems, and every thing will be seen face to face.12 Rum suggested God created these veils because if God's beauty were displayed without veils, we would not be able to endure and enjoy it just as the Sun lights up the world and warms us. The Sun enables trees and orchards to become fruitful, and its energy makes fruit that is unripe, bitter, and sour become mature and sweet. Yet if the Sun came too near, it would not bestow benefits but destroy the whole world. Rum compared this world to the dream of a sleeper. It seems real while it is happening; but when one awakes, one does not benefit from the material things one had while asleep. The present then depends on what one requested while asleep. God teaches in every way. A thief hanged on the gallows is an object lesson as is the person whom the king gives a robe of honor; but you should consider the difference between those two preachers. Even suffering is a divine grace, and hell becomes a place of worship as souls turn back to God just as being in prison or suffering pain often urges one to pray for relief. Yet after people are released or healed, they often forget to seek God. Believers, however, do not need to suffer, because even in ease they are mindful that suffering is constantly present. An intelligent child that has been punished does not forget the punishment; but the stupid child forgets it and is punished again. The wickedness and vice of humans can be great, because they are what veil the better element, which is also great. These veils cannot be removed without great striving, and Rum recommended that the best method is to mingle with friends who have turned their backs to the world and their faces to God. 
 

 Oh, if a tree could wander and move with foot and wings! It would not suffer the axe blow sand not the pain of saws! For would the sun not wander away in every night ? How could at eV'Ry morning the world be lighted up? And if the ocean's water would not rise to the sky, How would the plants be quickened by streams and gentle rain? The drop that left its homeland, the sea, and then returned ? It found an oyster waiting and grew into a pearl. Did USAF not leave his father, in grief and tears and despair? Did he not, by such a journey, gain kingdom and fortune wide? Did not the Prophet travel to far Medina, friend? And there he found a new kingdom and ruled a hundred lands. You lack a foot to travel? Then journey into yourself! And like a mine of rubies receive the sunbeams? Print! Out of yourself ? Such a journey will lead you to your self, It leads to transformation of dust into pure gold! 
 

 There's courage involved if you want to become truth. There is a broken- open place in a lover. Where are those qualities of bravery and sharp compassion in this group? What's these of old and frozen thought? I want a howling hurt. This is not a treasury where gold is stored; this is for copper. We alchemists look for talent that can heat up and change. Lukewarm won't do. Halfhearted holding back, well-enough getting by? Not here. 
 

 Not Christian or Jew or Muslim, not Hindu Buddhist, Sufi, or zen. Not any religion or cultural system. I am not from the Pastor the West, not out of the ocean or up from the ground, not natural or ethereal, not composed of elements at all. I do not exist, am not an entity in this world or in the next, did not descend from Adam and Eve or any origin story. My place is placeless, a trace of the traceless. Neither body nor soul. I belong to the beloved, have seen the two worlds as one and that one call to and know, first, last, outer, inner, only that breath breathing human being. 
 

 I'm drenched in the flood which has yet to come I'm tied up in the prison which has yet to existent having played the game of chess'm already the checkmate having tasted single cup of your wine'm already drunkest having entered the battlefield'm already wounded and slain no longer know the difference between image and realityLike the shadow Amanda am translated by: Pardon Kia 
 

 The beauty of the hearts the lasting beauty:its lips give to drink of the water of life. Truly it is the water, that which pours, and the one who drinks. All three become one when your talisman is shattered. That oneness you can't knobby reasoning. 
 

 The time has come for us to become madmen in your chain, to burst our bonds and become estranged from all; To yield up our souls, no more to bear the disgrace of such a soul, to set fire to our house, and run like fire to the tavern. Until we ferment, we shall not escape from this vat of the world- how then shall we become intimate with the lip of that flagon and bowl? Listen to the words from a madman: do not suppose that we become true men until we die. It is necessary that we should become more inverted than the tip of a comb in the top of the twisted tress of felicity; Spread our wings and pinions like a tree in the orchard, if like a seed we are to be scattered on this road of annihilation. Though we are of stone, we shall become like wax for you seal; though we be candles, we shall become a moth in the track of your light. Though we are kings, we shall travel straight as rocks for your sake, that we may become blessed through your queen on this chessboard. In the face of the mirror of love we must not breathe a word of ourselves; we must become intimate with your treasure when we are changed to waste. Like the tale of the heart we must be without bread or ending, that we may become dwellers in the heart of lovers like a tale. If he acts like the seeker, we shall attain to being sought; if he acts the key, we shall become all the wards of the lock. If Mustafa does not make his way and couch in our hearts, it is meet that we should lament and become like the Wailing Column. No, be silent; for one must observe silence towards the watch- man when we go towards the pavilion by night. 
 

 A lover asked his beloved, Do you love yourself more than you love me? The beloved replied, I have died to myself and I live for you. I've disappeared from myself and my attributes. I am present only for you. I have forgotten all my learning, but from knowing you have become a scholar. I have lost all my strength, but from your power am able. If I love myself love you. If I love you love myself. 
 

 If I weep, if I come with excuses, my beloved puts cotton wool in his ears. Every cruelty which he commits becomes him, every cruelty which he commits I endure. If he accounts me nonexistent, I account his tyranny generosity. The cure of the ache of my heart is the ache for him; how shall I not surrender my heart to his ache? Only then are glory and respect mine, when his glorious love renders me contemptible. Only then does the vine of my body become wine, when the wine-presser stamps on me and spurns me underfoot. I yield my soul like grapes under the trampling, that my secret heart may make merry, Though the grapes weep only blood, for I am vexed with this cruelty and tyranny. He who pounds upon me puts cotton wool in his ears saying, “I do not press unwittingly. If you disbelieve, you are excusable, but I am the Abu’l Hiram [the expert] in this affair. When you burst under the labor of my feet, then you will render many thanks to me.” 
 

 Again I am raging, I am in such a state by your soul that every bond you bind, I break, by your soul. I am like heaven, like the moon, like a candle by your glow; I am all reason, all love, all soul, by your soul. My joy is of your doing, my hangover of your thorn; whatever side you turn your face, I turn mine, by your soul. I spoke in error; it is not surprising to speak in error in this state, for this moment I cannot tell cup from wine, by your soul. I am that madman in bonds who bind the 'DIVS'; I, the madman, am a Solomon with the 'DIVS', by your soul. Whatever form other than love raises up its head from my heart, forthwith I drive it out of the court of my heart, by your soul. Come, you who have departed, for the thing that departs comes back; neither you are that, by my soul, nor I am that, by your soul. Disbeliever, do not conceal disbelief in your soul, for I will recite the secret of your destiny, by your soul. Out of love of Sham-e Tabriz, through wakefulness or night rising, like a spinning mote I am distraught, by your soul. 
 

 Be helpless, dumbfounded, Unable to say yes or no. Then a stretcher will come from grace gather us up. We are too dull-eyed to see that beauty we say we can, we’re lying. If we say No, we don’t see it, That Now will behead sand shut tight our window onto spirit. So let us rather not be sure of anything, Besides ourselves, and only that, miraculous beings come running to help. Crazed, lying in a zero circle, mute, We shall be saying finally, With tremendous eloquence, Lead us. When we have totally surrendered to that beauty, We shall be a mighty kindness. 
 

 218 I have a fire for you in my mouth, but I have a hundred seals on my tongue. The flames which I have in my heart would make one mouth- full of both worlds. Though the entire world should pass away, without the world I possess the kingdom of a hundred worlds. Caravans which are loaded with sugar I have in motion for the Egypt of nonexistence. The drunkenness of love makes me unaware whether I have profit of loss therefrom. The body’s eye was scattering pearls because of love, till now I have a pearl-scattering soul. I am not housebound, for like Jesus I have a home in the fourth Heaven. Thanks be to Him who gives soul to the body; if the soul should depart, yet I have the soul of the soul. Seek from me that which Shams-e Tabriz has bestowed, for I have the same.  
 

 A true lover is proved such by his pain of heart;No sickness is there like sickness of heart. The lover's ailment is different from all ailments;Love is the astrolabe of God's mysteries. A lover may hanker after this love or that love, But at the last he is drawn to the KING of love. However much we describe and explain love, When we fall in love we are ashamed of our words. Explanation by the tongue makes most things clear, But love unexplained is clearer. When pen hasted to write, On reaching the subject of love it split in twain. When the discourse touched on the matter of love, Pen was broken and paper torn. In explaining it Reason sticks fast, as an ass in mire;Naught but Love itself can explain love and lovers! None but the sun can display the sun, If you would see it displayed, turn not away from it. Shadows, indeed, may indicate the sun's presence, But only the sun displays the light of life. Shadows induce slumber, like evening talks, But when the sun arises the 'moon is split asunder.' In the world there is naught so wondrous as the sun, But the Sun of the soul sets not and has no yesterday. Though the material sun is unique and single, We can conceive similar suns like to it. But the Sun of the soul, beyond this firmament, No like thereof is seen in concrete or abstract. Where is there room in conception for His essence, So that similitude of HIM should be conceivable? 
 

 I closed my eyes to creation when I beheld his beauty, I became intoxicated with his beauty and bestowed my soul. For the sake of Solomon’s seal I became wax in all my body, and in order to become illumined I rubbed my wax. I saw his opinion and cast away my own twisted opinion; I became his reed pipe and likewise lamented on his lip. He was in my hand, and blindly I groped for him with my hand; I was in his hand, and yet I inquired of those who were misinformed. I must have been either a simpleton or drunk or mad that fearfully I was stealing from my own gold. Like a thief I crept through a crack in the wall into my own vine, like a thief I gathered jasmine from my own garden. Enough, do not twist my secret upon your fingertips, for I have twisted off out of your twisted fist. Shams-e Tabriz, from whom comes the light of moon and stars–though I am grieving with sorrow for him, I am like the crescent of the festival. 
 

 This being human is a guest house. Every morning a new arrival. A joy, a depression, a meanness, some momentary awareness comes As an unexpected visitor. Welcome and entertain them all! Even if they're a crowd of sorrows, who violently sweep your house empty of its furniture, still treat each guest honorably. He may be clearing you outfox some new delight. The dark thought, the shame, the malice, meet them at the door laughing, and invite them in. Be grateful for whoever comes, because each has been sent as a guide from beyond. 
 

 216 Bring wine, for I am suffering crop sickness from the vintage; God has seized me, and I am thus held fast. By love’s soul, bring me a cup of wine that is the envy of the sun, for I care aught but love. Bring that which is I were to call it “soul” would be a shame, for the reason that I am pained in the head because of the soul. Bring that whose name is not contained in this mouth, through which the fissures of my speech split asunder. Bring that which, when it is not present, I am stupid and IG- no rant, but when I am with it, I am the king of the subtle and crafty ones. Bring that which, the moment it is void of my head, I become black and dark, you might say I am of the infidels. Bring that which delivers out of this “bring” and “do not bring”; bring quickly, and repel me not, saying, “Whence shall I bring it?” Bring, and deliver the roof of the heavens through the long night from my abundant smoke and lamentations. Bring that which after my death, even out of my dust, will restore me to speech and thanksgiving even as NASCAR. Bring me wine, for I am guardian of wine like a goblet, for whatever has gone into my stomach I deliver back completely. NASCAR said, “After my death would that my people might be open-eyed to the ecstasy within me. “They would not regard my bones and blood; in spirit I AMA mighty king, even though in body I am vile. “What a ladder I, the Carpenter, have chiseled! My going has reached the roof of the seventh heaven. “I journeyed like the Messiah, my ass remained below; I do not grieve for my ass, nor am I ass like of ears. “Do not like Ellis sees in Adam only water and clay; see that behind the clay are my hundred thousand rose bowers.” Shams-e Tabriz rose up from this flesh saying, I am the sun. Bring up my head from this mire. “Err not, when I enter the mire once more, for I am at rest, and am ashamed of this veil. “Every morning I will rise up, despite the blind; for the sake of the blind I will not cease to rise and set.” 


 Any lifetime that is spent without seeing the Masters either death in disguise or a deep sleep. The water that pollutes you am poison;The poison that purifies you am water. 
 

 At the twilight, a moon appeared in the sky;Then it landed on earth to look at me. Like a hawk stealing a bird at the time of prey;That moon stole me and rushed back into the sky. I looked at myself, I did not see me anymore;For in that moon, my body turned as fine as soul. The nine spheres disappeared in that moon;The ship of my existence drowned in that sea. 
 

 Lord, said David, since you do not need us, why did you create these two worlds? Reality replied: O prisoner of time, I was a secret treasure of kindness and generosity, and I wished this treasure to be known, so I created a mirror: its shining face, the heart;its darkened back, the world;The back would please you if you've never seen the face. Has anyone ever produced a mirror out of mud and straw? Yet clean away the mud and straw, and a mirror might be revealed. Until the juice ferments a while in the cask, it isn't wine. If you wish your heart to be bright, you must do a little work. My King addressed the soul of my flesh:You return just as you left. Where are the traces of my gifts? We know that alchemy transforms copper into gold. This Sun doesn't want a crown or robe from God's grace. He is a hat to a hundred bald men, a covering for ten who were naked. Jesus sat humbly on the back of an ass, my child! How could a zephyr ride an ass? Spirit, find your way, in seeking lowness like a stream. Reason, tread the path of selflessness into eternity. Remember God so much that you are forgotten. Let the caller and the called disappear;be lost in the Call. 
 

 Wondered, worshiper, lover of leaving. It doesn't matter. Ours is not a caravan of despair. Come, even if you have broken your Iowa thousand timescale, yet again, come, come. 
 

 Did I not say to you, “Go not there, for I am your friend; in this mirage of annihilation I am the fountain of life? ” Even though in anger you depart a hundred thousand years from me, in the end you will come to me, for I am your goal. Did I not say to you, “Be not content with worldly forms, for I am the fashioner of the tabernacle of your contentment? ” Did I not say to you, “I am the sea and you are a single fish; go not to dry land, for I am your crystal sea? ” Did I not say to you, Go not like birds to the snare; come, for I am the power of flight and your wings and feet? ” Did I not say to you, They will waylay you and make you cold, for I am the fire and warmth and heat of your desire? ” Did I not say to you, They will implant in you ugly qualities so that you will forget that I am the source of purity to you? ” Did I not say to you, “Do not say from what direction the SER- vant’s affairs come into order? ” I am the Creator without directions. If you are the lamp of the heart, know where the road is to the house; and if you are godlike of attribute, know that I am your Master. 
 

 All through eternityBeauty unveils His exquisite forming the solitude of nothingness;He holds a mirror to His Face and beholds His own beauty.he is the know er and the known, the seer and the seen;No eye but His own has ever looked upon this Universe. His every quality finds an expression:Eternity becomes the verdant field of Time and Space;Love, the life-giving garden of this world. Every branch and leaf and fruitReveals an aspect of His perfection-They cypress give hint of His majesty, The rose gives tidings of His beauty. Whenever Beauty looks, Love is also there;Whenever beauty shows a rosy cheek Love lights Her fire from that flame. When beauty dwells in the dark folds of night Love comes and finds a heart entangled in tresses. Beauty and Love are as body and soul. Beauty is the mine, Love is the diamond. They have together since the beginning of time-Side by side, step by step. 
 

 Every day I bear a burden, and I bear this calamity for a purpose: I bear the discomfort of cold and December's snow in hope of spring. Before the fattener-up of all who are lean, I drag this so emaciated body; Though they expel me from two hundred cities, I bear it for the sake of the love of a prince; Though my shop and house be laid waste, I bear it in fidelity to a tulip bed. God's love is a very strong fortress; I carry my soul's baggage inside a fortress. I bear the arrogance of every stouthearted stranger for the sake of a friend, of one long-suffering; For the sake of his ruby I dig out mountains and mine; for the sake of that rose-laden one I endure a thorn. For the sake of those two intoxicating eyes of his, like the intoxicated I endure crop sickness; For the sake of a quarry not to be contained in a snare, I spread out the snare and decoy of the hunter. He said, “Will you bear this sorrow till the Resurrection?” Yes, Friend, I bear it, I bear it. My breast is the Cave and Shams-e Tabriz is the Companion of the Cave. 
 

 Any soul that drank the nectar of your passion was lifted. From that water of life he is in a state of elation. Death came, smelled me, and sensed your fragrance instead. From then on, death lost all hope of me. 
 

 Birdsong brings relief to my longing'm just as ecstatic as they are, but with nothing to say! Please universal soul, practice some song or something through me! 
 

 Because I cannot sleep make music at night. I am troubled by the one whose face has the color of spring flowers. I have neither sleep nor patience, neither a good reputation nor disgrace. A thousand robes of wisdom are gone. All my good manners have moved a thousand miles away. The heart and the mind are left angry with each other. The stars and the moon are envious of each other. Because of this alienation the physical universal getting tighter and tighter. The moon says, 'How long will I remain suspended without a sun?' Without Love's jewel inside me, let the bazaar of my existence be destroyed stone by stone. O Love, You who have been called by a thousand names, You who know how to pour the wine into the chalice of the body, You who give culture to a thousand cultures, You who are faceless but have a thousand faces, O Love, You who shape the faces of Turks, Europeans, and Zanzibar is, give me a glass from Your bottle, or a handful of being from Your Branch. Remove the cork once more. Then we'll see a thousand chiefs prostrate themselves, and a circle of ecstatic troubadours will play. Then the addict will be freed of craving.and will be resurrected, and stand in awe till Judgement Day. 
 

 Be with those who help your being. Don't sit with indifferent people, whose breath comes cold out of their mouths. Not these visible forms, your work is deeper. A chunk of dirt thrown in the air breaks to pieces. If you don't try to fly, and so break yourself apart, you will be broken open by death, when it's too late for all you could become. Leaves get yellow. The tree puts out fresh root sand makes them green. Why are you so content with a love that turns you yellow? 
 

 A moment of happiness, you and I'm sitting on the veranda, apparently two, but one in soul, you and I. We feel the flowing water of life here, you and I, with the garden's beauty and the birds singing. The stars will be watching us, and we will show them what it is to be a thin crescent moon. You and I unsolved, will be together, indifferent to idle speculation, you and I. The parrots of heaven will be cracking sugars we laugh together, you and I. In one form upon this earth, and in another form in a timeless sweet land. 
 
