
 'And with what body do they come?' — Then they do come — Rejoice! What Door — What Hour — Run — run — My Soul! Illuminate the House!' Body!' Then real — a Face and Eyes — To know that it is them! Paul knew the Man that knew the News — He passed through Bethlehem — 
 

 The Mushroom is the Elf of Plants -At Evening, it is notate Morning, in a Truffles Hut It stop open a Spots if it tarried always yet it's whole Careers shorter than a Snake's Delay -And fleeter than a Tare -'Ti's Vegetation's Juggler -The Germ of Alibi -Doth like a Bubble antedated like a Bubble, hie -I feel as if the Grass was pleased have it intermix -This surreptitious Scion Summer's circumspect. Had Nature any supple Factor could she one contemn -Had Nature an Apostate -That Mushroom — it is Him! 
 

 So much of Heaven has gone from Earthiest there must be a Heaven only to enclose the Saints Affidavit given. The Missionary to the Molest prove there is a Location doubtless he would pleaded what excuse have I? Too much of Proof affronts Belief Turtle will not unless you leave him — then returned he has hauled away. 
 

 Nature rarer uses Fellowman another Hue. Saves she all of that for SunsetsProdigal of BlueS pending Scarlet, like a WomanYellow she affordably scantly and selectlyLike a Lover's Words. 
 

 The Face we choose to miss — Be it but for a Days absent as a Hundred Years, When it has ridden away. 
 

 STEP lightly on this narrow spot!	The broadest land that grows	Is not so ample as the breast	These emerald seams enclose.	 Step lofty; for this name is told	As far as cannon dwell,	Or flag subsist, or fame export	Her deathless syllable. 
 

 MY cocoon tightens, colors tease,	I'm feeling for the air;	A dim capacity for wings	Degrades the dress I wear.	 A power of butterfly must be	The aptitude to fly,	Meadows of majesty concedes	And easy sweeps of sky.	 So I must baffle at the hint	And cipher at the sign,	And make much blunder, if at last	I take the clew divine. 
 

 Witchcraft has not a pedigree, ‘Ti's early as our breath, And mourners meet it going outage moment of our death. 
 

 DEAR March, come in!	How glad I am!	I looked for you before.	Put down your hat—	You must have walked—	How out of breath you are!	Dear March, how are you?	And the rest?	Did you leave Nature well?	Oh, March, come right upstairs with me,	I have so much to tell!	 I got your letter, and the bird's;	The maples never knew	That you were coming, —I declare,	How red their faces grew!	 But, March, forgive me—	And all those hills	You left for me to hue;	There was no purple suitable,	You took it all with you.	 Who knocks? That April!	Lock the door!	I will not be pursued!	He stayed away a year, to call	When I am occupied.	 But trifles look so trivial	As soon as you have come,	That blame is just as dear as praise	And praise as mere as blame.	 
 

 The reticent volcano keeps never slumbering plan — Confided are his projects pinto no precarious man. If nature does not tell the tale Jehovah told to Herman human nature not surviveWithout a listener? Admonished by her buckled islet every babbler Bethe only secret people keeps Immortality. 
 

 Remembrance has a Rear and Front — 'Ti's something like a House — It has a Garret also Refuse and the Mouse. Besides the deepest CellarThat every Mason laid — Look to it by its FathomsOurselves be not pursued — 
 

 Oh, Shadow! on the Grass, Art thou a Step or not? Go make the fair my Candidate nominated Heart — Oh Shadow on the Erstwhile I delay to gruesome other thou wilt consecrate — Oh Unelected Face — 
 

 These Fevered Days — to take them to the Foreshore Waters cool around the mosses crawl — And shade is all that devastates the stillnessSeems it sometimes this would be all — 
 

 Warm in her Hand these accents erewhile faithful and farther Grace so awkward for her skits fond subjection wear — 
 

 Too cold is this warm with Sun — Too stiff to bent be, To joint this Agate were a work — Outstaying Masonry — How went the Agile Kernel contusion of the Huskier Rip, nor wrinkle indicate just an Asterisk. 
 

 Not Sickness stains the Brave, Nor any Dart, Nor Doubt of Scene to come, But an adjourning Heart — 
 

 Glory is that bright tragic thingThat for an instantMeans Dominion — Warms some poor somewhat never felt the Sun, Gently replacing In oblivion — 
 

 Immured in Heaven! What a Cell! Let every Bondage be, Thou sweetest of the Universe, Like that which ravished thee! 
 

 'Twas comfort in her Dying Room hear the living Clock — A short relief to have the windward boldly up and knock — Diversion from the Dying Thereto hear the children play — But wrong the somewhat these could lived this of ours must die. 
 

 The Devil — had he fidelityWould be the best friend — Because he has ability — But Devils cannot mend — Perfidy is the virtueThat would, but he resigned Devil — without questionnaire thoroughly divine 
 

 Of so divine a Loss enter but the Gain, Indemnity for LonelinessThat such a Bliss has been. 
 

 Could mortal lip divine undeveloped Freight a delivered syllable'Would crumble with the weight. 
 

 Ended, ere it began — The Title was scarcely Golden the Preface perished from Consciousness Story, unrevealed — Had it been mine, to print! Had it been yours, to read! That it was not Our privilege interdict of God — 
 

 Whether they have forgotten are forgetting Noor never remembered — Safer not to know — Miseries of conjecture a softer Ethan a Fact of Unhardened with I know — 
 

 By homely gift and hindered Words human heart is told Nothing — 'Nothing' is the forceThat renovates the World — 
 

 The Beggar at the Door for Families easily supplied Bread is that Diviner thingDisclosed to be denied 
 

 The Clover's simple FameRemembered of the Cow — Is better than enameled Realms notability. Renown perceives itself that degrades the Flower — The Daisy that has looked behinds compromised its power — 
 

 'Tomorrow' — whose location Wise deceivesThough its hallucinations last that leaves — Tomorrow — thou Retriever every tare — Of Alibi art thou ow nest where? 
 

 As subtle as tomorrowThat never came, A warrant, a conviction, Yet but a name. 
 

 A train went through a burial gate, A bird broke forth and sang, And trilled, and quivered, and shook his throatily all the churchyard rang;And then adjusted his little notes, And bowed and sang again. Doubtless, he thought it meet of him say good-by to men. 
 

 I thought the Train would never come — How slow the whistle sang — I don't believe a peevish Birds whimpered for the Spring — I taught my Heart a hundred imprecisely what to say — Provoking Lover, when you cameras Treatise flew away hide my strategy too later wiser be too soon — For miseries so halcyon happiness atone — 
 
The Best Witchcraft is Geometry the magician's mind — His ordinary acts are feast thinking of mankind. 
 

 A Spider sewed at NightWithout a Lifespan an Arc of White. If Ruff it was of Cameo Shroud of GnomeHimself himself inform. Of Immortality Strategy Physiognomy. 
 

 Speech is one symptom of Affectionate Silence one — The perfectest communications heard of none — Exists and its endorsements had within — Behold, said the Apostle, Yet had not seen! 
 

 No brigadier throughout the years civic as the jay. A neighbor and a warrior too, With shrill felicityPursuing winds that censure USA February day, The brother of the universes never blown away. The snow, and he is intimate;I've often seen them playpen heaven looked upon us with such severity, I felt apology were duet an insulted sky, Whose pompous frown was nutriment their temerity. The pillow of this daring heads pungent evergreens;His larder — terse and militant —Unknown, refreshing things;His character a tonic, His future a dispute;Unfair an immortalityThat leaves this neighbor out. 
 

 As from the earth the light Balloonists nothing but release — Ascension that for which it was, Its soaring Residence. The spirit looks upon the Dustman fastened it so longish indignation, As a BirdDefrauded of its song. 
 

 As old as Woe — How old is that? Some eighteen thousand years — As old as Bishop old is Thatcher are of equal yearsTogether chiefest they ard found seldom side by sidearm neither of them tho' he try Can Human nature hide. 
 

 Downtime's quaint streamWithout an are are enforced to sailor Port a secretory Perchance a Somewhat Skipper wouldIncur the Rickshaw Buccaneer would rideWithout a surety from the Window schedule of the Tide — 
 

 Hope is a strange invention — A Patent of the Heart — In unremitting actioned never wearing out — Of this electric Adjunct anything is known its unique momentumEmbellish all we own — 
 

 Tell as a Marksman — were forgotten Tell — this Day enduresRuddy as that coeval AppleT he Tradition bears — Fresh as Mankind that humble storyThough a statelier Homegrown in the Repetition hoaryScarcely would prevail — Tell had a son — The ones that knew need not linger here — Those who did not to Human Nature Will subscribe a Tear — Tell would not bare his Heading Presence the Ducal Hat — Threatened for that with Death — by Kessler — Tyranny bethoughtMake of his only Boy a TargetThat surpasses Death — Stolid to Love's supreme entreaty forsook of Faith — Mercy of the Almighty begging — Tell his Arrow sent — God it is said replies in Personnel the cry is meant — 
 

 A bird came down the walk:He did not know I saw; He bit an angle-worm in halves ate the fellow, raw. And then he drank a deform a convenient grass, And then hopped side wise to the wall let a beetle pass.He glanced with rapid aesthete hurried all abroad,- They looked like frightened beads, I thought; He stirred his velvet headline one in danger; cautious, I offered him a crumb, And he unrolled his fatherland rowed him softer hometown oars divide the ocean, Too silver for a seam, Or butterflies, off banks of noon, Leap, splashless, as they swim. 
 

 308I send Two Sunsets—Day and I—in competition ran—I finished Two—and several Stars—While He—was making One—His own was ampler—but as Was saying to a friend—Mine—is the more convenient Carry in the Hand— 
 

 I bet with every Wind that bloodily Nature in chagrinEmployed a Fact to visit mean scuttle my Balloon — 
 

 A Sickness of this World it most occasionsWhen Best Men die. A Wistfulness their far Conditions occupy. A Chief indifference, as Foreign World must themselves forsake — contented, For Deity. 
 

 Lives he in any other worldly faith cannot replyBefore it was imperative'Twas all distinct to me — 
 

 The going from a world we know one a wonder stills like the child's adversityWhose vista is a hill, Behind the hill is sorcery everything unknown, But will the secret compensator climbing it alone? 
 

 If ever the lid gets off my headland lets the brain swathe fellow will go where he belonged — Without a hint from me, And the world — if the world be looking on — Will see how far from home It is possible for sense to lithe soul there — all the time. 
 

 Said Death to Passion'Give of thine an Acre unto me.' Said Passion, through contracting Breaths'A A Thousand Times The Nay.' Bore Death from Passionate His East He — sovereign as the SunResituated in the Westland the Debate was done. 
 

 Whole Gulfs — of Red, and Fleets — of Red — And Crews — of solid Blood — Did place upon the West — Tonight — As 'were specific Ground — And They — appointed Creatures — In Authorized Arrays — Due — promptly — as a Drama — That bows — and disappears — 
 

 Some Days retired from the resting soft distinction lithe Day that a Companion cameo was obliged to die 
 

 It sounded as if the Streets were running then — the Streets stood still — Eclipse — was all we could see at the Windward Awe — was all we could feel. By and by — the boldest stole out of his Covert see if Time was there — Nature was in an Opal Apron, Mixing fresher Air. 
 

 September's Baccalaureate combination ISAF Crickets — Crows — and Retrospection a dissembling Breezeway hints without assuming — An Innuendo Aretha makes the Heart put up its Fund turn Philosopher. 
 

 Silence is all we dread. There's Ransom in a Voice — But Silence is Infinity. Himself have not a face. 
 

 Sometimes with the Heathendom with the SoulScarcer once with the Miffed — love at all. 
 

 A Pang is more conspicuous in Springing contrast with the things that singlet Birds entirely — but Minds — Minute Effulgence and Winds — When what they sung for is undone cares about a Blue Bird's Tune — Why, Resurrection had to wittily they had moved a Stone — 
 

 Spring comes on the World — I sight the Aprils — Hueless to me until thou comes, till the Blossoms stand negative, Touched to Conditions a Hum. 
 

 The inundation of the SpringEnlarges every soul — It sweeps the tenement away leaves the Water whole — In which the soul at first estranged — Seeks faintly for its shortcut acclimated — pines no Moreno that Peninsula — 
 

 The Notice that is called the Springs but a month from here — Put up my Heart thy Hoary worked take a Rosy Chair. Not any House the Flowers keep — The Birds enamor Care — Our salary the longest Days nothing but a Bier. 
 

 He preached upon 'Breadth' till it argued him narrow — The Broad are too broad to defined of 'Truth' until it proclaimed him a Liar — The Truth never flaunted a Sign — Simplicity fled from his counterfeit presences Gold the Pyrites would shun — What confusion would cover the innocent Jesus meet so enabled a Man! 
 

 The duties of the Wind are few, To cast the ships, at Sea, Establish March, the Floods escort, And usher Liberty. The pleasures of the Wind are broad, To dwell Extent among, Remain, or wander, Speculate, or Forests entertain. The kinsmen of the Wind are PeaksAzof — the Equinox, Also with Bird and Asteroid bowing intercourse. The limitations of the Wind he exists, or die, Too wise he seems for Carelessness, However, know not i. 
 

 A Wind that forethought not a Leafing any Forest stirred with itself did cold engageBeyond the Realm of Bird — A Wind that woke a lone Delighting Separation's SwellRestored in Arctic Confidence the Invisible — 
 

 Revolution is the Systems rattle frozen the Winds of Will are stirredExcellent is Bloom except its Russet Basketry Summer Bethe Entombed of itself, So of Liberty — Left inactive on the Stall its Purple pre-revolution shakes it forest if it is dead. 
 

 Not any sunny tonearm any fervent confined entrance there — Better a grave of BalmToward human nature's home — And Robins near — Than a stupendous TombProclaiming to the Gloomy dead we are — 
 

 Air has no Residence, no Neighbor, No Ear, no Door, No Apprehension of Another, Happy Air! Ethereal Guest at e'en an Outcast's Pillow — Essential Host, in Life's faint, wailing Inn, Later than Light thy Consciousness accost still it departs, persuading Mine — 
 

 To the bright east she flies, Brothers of ParadiseRemit her home, Without a change of wings, Or Love's convenient things, Enticed to come. Fashioning what she is, Fathoming what she was, We deem we dream — And that dissolves the walkthrough which existence straysHomeless at home. 
 

 A Word dropped careless on a Page May stimulate an ashen folded in perpetual Seattle Wrinkled Maker disinfection in the sentence breeds may inhale Despair At distances of CenturiesFrom the Malaria — 
 

 Let me not mar that perfect Dreamy an Aurora saint so adjust my daily Nighttime it will come again. Not when we know, the Power accosts — The Garment of Surprises all our timid Mother wore At Home — in Paradise. 
 

 March is the Month of Expectation. The things we do not know — The Persons of prognostication coming now — We try to show becoming firmness — But pompous Betrays us, as his first BetrothalBetrays a Boy. 
 

 Volcanoes be in Sicilian South American judge from my Geography — Volcanos nearer Hara Lava step at any time Am I inclined to climb — A Crater I may contemplate Vesuvius at Home. 
 

 If all the griefs I am to haveWould only come today, I am so happy I believeThey'd laugh and run away. If all the joys I am to haveWould only come today, They could not be so big as Tristan happens to me now. 
 

 I am afraid to own a Body — I am afraid to own a Soul — Profound — precarious Property — Possession, not optional — Double Estate — entailed at pleasureUpon an unsuspecting Heir — Duke in a moment of DeathlessnessAnd God, for a Frontier. 
 

 The Hills erect their Purple Headache Rivers lean to secret Man has not of all the Throng Curiosity. 
 

 The Hills in Purple syllables Day's Adventures tells little Groups of Continentalist going Home from School. 
 

 The grave my little cottage is, Where 'Keeping house' for thee make my parlor borderland lay the marble tea. For two divided, briefly, A cycle, it may be, Till everlasting life unite In strong society. 
 

 Growth of Man — like Growth of Nature — Gravitates within — Atmosphere, and Sun endorse it — Bit it stir — alone — Each — its difficult Idealist achieve — Itself — Through the solitary professor a Silent Life — Effort — is the sole condition — Patience of Itself — Patience of opposing forces — And intact Belief — Looking on — is the Department its Audience — But Transaction — is assisted no Countenance — 
 

 Is it too late to touch you, Dear? We this moment knew — Love Marine and Love Terrence — Love celestial too — 
 

 Shall I take thee, the Poet said the propounded word? Be stationed with the CandidatesTill I have finer tried—The Poet searched Philology when about to rigor the suspended CandidateThere came summoned in—That portion of the Vision Word applied to fillet unto nomination Cherubim reveal— 
 

 Had we our senses perhaps 'TIS well they're not at Homes intimate with Madness He's liable with themed we the eyes without our Head—How well that we are Blind—We could not look upon the Earth—So utterly unmoved— 
 

 Drowning is not so pitiful As the attempt to rise.	Three times, 't is said, a sinking man	Comes up to face the skies,	And then declines forever	To that abhorred abode	Where hope, and he part company, —	For he is grasped of God.	The Maker's cordial visage,	However good to see,	Is shunned, we must admit it,	Like an adversity. 
 

 His voice decrepit was with Joy — Her words did totter show old the News of Love must beta make Lips elderlyThat purled a moment since with Glee — Is it Delight or Woe — Or Terror — that do decorates livid interview — 
 

 Rearrange a 'Wife's' affection! When they dislocate my Brain! Amputate my freckled Bosom! Make me bearded like a man! Blush, my spirit, in thy Fastness — Blush, my unacknowledged clay — Seven years of troth have taught thee More than Wifehood every may! Love that never leaped its socket — Trust entrenched in narrow pain — Constancy tho' fire — awarded — Anguish — bare of anodyne! Burden — borne so far triumphant — None suspect me of the crown, For I wear the 'Thorns' till Sunset — Then — my Diadem put on. Big my Secret but it's bandaged — It will never get waybill the Day its Weary Cheerleads it through the Grave to thee. 
 

 It stole along so stealthySuspicion it was donas dim as to the wealthyBeginning not to own — 
 

 185”Faith” is a fine inventionWhen Gentlemen can see—But Microscopes are prudent In an Emergency. 
 

 666Ah, Tenerife! Retreating Mountain! Purples of Ages—pause for you—Sunset—reviews her Sapphire Regiment—Day—drops you her Red Adieu!Still,—Clad in your Mail of ices—Thigh of Granite—and thew—of Steel—Heedless—alike—of pomp—or parting, Tenerife! I'm kneeling—still— 
 

 Escape is such a thankful Word often in the NightConsider it unto myself No spectacle in sightEscape — it is the Basket In which the Heart is caughtWhen down some awful Battlements rest of Life is drop — 'Ti's not to sight the savior — It is to be the saved — And that is why I lay my Hereupon this trusty word — 
 

 How lonesome the Wind must feel Nights — When people have put out the Nightstand everything that has an Encloses the shutter and goes in — How pompous the Wind must feel Doorstepping to incorporeal TunesCorrecting errors of the stand clarifying scenery mighty the Wind must feel MornsEncamping on a thousand dawnsEspousing each and spurning Allen soaring to his Temple Tall — 
 

 THE BAT is dun with wrinkled wings	Like fallow article,	And not a song pervades his lips,	Or none perceptible.	 His small umbrella, quaintly halved, Describing in the air	An arc alike inscrutable, —	Elate philosopher!	 Deputed from what firmament	Of what astute abode, Empowered with what malevolence	Auspiciously withheld.	 To his adroit Creator	Ascribe no less the praise;	Beneficent, believe me, His eccentricities. 
 

 Could Hope to inspect her Banished Craft were done — Has a fictitious Charterer it has none — Balked in the vastest instance to renew — Felled by but one assassin — Prosperity — 
 

 In snow thou comes — Thou shalt go with the resuming ground, The sweet derision of the crow, And Glee's advancing sound. In fear thou comes — Thou shalt go at such a gait of that man anew embark to lineup the depth of thee. 
 

 THE LARGEST fire ever known	Occurs each afternoon,	Discovered is without surprise,	Proceeds without concern:	Consumes, and no report to men,	An Occidental town,	Rebuilt another morning	To be again burned down. 
 

 To mend each tattered FaithThere is a needle forethought no appearance indicate 'Ti's threaded in the Air And though it does not areas if it never Tore'Ti's very comfortable indeed spacious as before 
 

 'Faithful to the end' AmendedFrom the Heavenly Clause — Constancy with a ProvisoConstancy abhors — 'Crowns of Life' are servile Priest the stately Heart, Given for the Giving, solely, No Emolument.- 'Faithful to the end' AmendedFrom the Heavenly clause — Lucrative indeed the offer the Heart withdraws — 'I will give' the base Proviso — Spare Your 'Crown of Life' — Those it fits, too fair to wear it — Try it on Yourself — 
 

 I saw the wind within her knew it blew for me —But she must buy my shelter asked Humility 
 

 Death is like the insectMenacing the tree, Competent to kill it, But decoyed may be. Bait it with the balsam, Seek it with the saw, Baffle, if it cost everything you are. Then, if it has burrowed of reach of skill — Wring the tree and leave it,'Ti's the vermin's will. 
 

 The Butterfly's Assumption Gowning Chrysoprase Apartments hunters afternoon put on — How condescending to descendant be of Buttercups the friending a New England Town — 
 

 FATE slew him, but he did not drop;She felled—he did not fall—Impaled him on her fiercest stakes—He neutralized them all. She stung him, sapped his firm advance, But, when her worst was done, And he, unmoved, regarded her, Acknowledged him a man. 
 

 The Wind took up the Northern Things piled them in the south — Then gave the East unto the Westland opening his Mouthe four Divisions of the Earthed make as to devourWhile everything to corners slunkBehind the awful power — The Wind — unto his Chambers wetland nature ventured out — Her subjects scattered into placer systems ranged aboutAgain the smoke from Dwellings rosette Day abroad was heard — How intimate, a Tempest paste Transport of the Bird — 
 

 All men for Honor hardest workout are not known to earn — Paid after they have ceased to working Infamy or Urn — 
 

 The spry Arms of the India I could crawl between have an errand imminent an adjoining Zone — I should not care to stormy Process is not length Wind could wait without the Gator stroll the Town among. To ascertain the Husband is the soul at Homeland hold the Wick of mine to into light, and then return — 
 

 A little Madness in the Springs wholesome even for the King, But God be with the Clown — Who ponders this tremendous scene — This whole Experiment of Green — As if it were his own! 
 

 16I would distil a cup, And bear to all my friends, Drinking to her no more astir, By beck, or burn, or moor! 
 

 430It would never be Common—more—I said—Difference—had begun—Many a bitterness—had been—But that old sort—was done—Or—if it sometime—showed—as 'twill—Upon the Downiest—Morn—Such bliss—had I—for all the years—'Would give an Easier—pain—I'd so much joy—I told it—Red—Upon my simple Cheek—I felt it publish—in my Eye—'Twas needless—any speak—I walked—as wings—my body bore—The feet—I former used—Unnecessary—now to me—As boots—would be—to Birds—I put my pleasure all abroad—I death a word of Gold every Creature—that I met—And Dowered—all the World—When—suddenly—my Riches shrank—A Goblin—drank my Dew—My Palaces—dropped tenantless—Myself—was beggared—too—I clutched at sounds—I groped at shapes—I touched the tops of Films—I felt the Wilderness roll backlog my Golden lines—The Sackcloth—hangs upon the nail—The Frock I used to wear—But where my moment of Brocade—My—drop—of India? 
 

 814One Day is there of the Sequestered Thanksgiving Day. Celebrated part at Tableware in Memory. Neither Patriarch nor Pussy dissect the Players it to my Hooded thinkingReflex Holiday. Had there been no sharp SubtractionFrom the early Sum—Not an Acre or a CaptionWhere was once a Room—Not a Mention, whose small PebbleWrinkled any Sea, Unto Such, were such Assembly'Were Thanksgiving Day. 
 

 Longing is like the Speedboat wrestles in the Ground, Believing if it intercede It shall at length be found. The Hour and the Clime — Each Circumstance unknown, What Constancy must be achievedBefore it sees the Sun! 
 

 Not with a club, the Heart is broken,	Nor with a stone;	A whip, so small you could not see it,	I've known	To lash the magic creature Till it fell,	Yet that whip's name too noble	Then to tell.	 Magnanimous of bird	By boy descried, To sing unto the stone	Of which it died. Next: The Only News I know 
 

 He ate and drank the precious Words — His Spirit grew robust — He knew no more that he was poor, Nor that his frame was Dust — He danced along the dingy Dayan this Bequest of Wingspan but a Book — What Liberty loosened spirit brings — 
 

 FORBIDDEN fruit a flavor has	That lawful orchards mocks;	How luscious lies the pea within	The pod that Duty locks! 
 

 Lightly stepped a yellow start its lofty place — Loosed the Moon her silver from her austral Face — All Evening softly pitas an Astral Hall — Father, I observed to Heaven, You are punctual. 
 

 My cocoon tightens, colors tease, I'm feeling for the air;A dim capacity for wingsDegrades the dress I wear. A power of butterfly must Bethe aptitude to fly, Meadows of majesty conceded easy sweeps of sky. So I must baffle at the Finland cipher at the sign, And make much blunder, if at last take the clew divine. 
 

 The Butterfly in honored DustAssuredly will Lieut none will pass the Catacombs chastened as the Fly — 
 

 Declaiming Waters none may dread — But Waters that are stellar so for that most fatal casein Nature — they are full — 
 

 The butterfly obtains little sympathyThough favorably mentioned In Entomology — Because he travels Freeland wears a proper cattle circumspect are certainty he is dissolute — Had he the homely scutcheon modest Industry'Were fitter certifying Immortality — 
 

 Proud of my broken heart, since thou didst break it. Proud of the pain, I did not feel? Till thee. Proud of my night, since thou, with moons, dos't shake it. Not to partake thy passion, -my humilityThou can'st not boast, like Jesus, drunken without companionway the strong cup of anguish brewed for the Nazareth can'st not pierce tradition with the peerless puncture, See! I usurped thy crucifix to honor mine! 
 

 The Road was lit with Moon and star — The Trees were bright and still — Descried I — by the distant Light Traveler on a Hill — To magic PerpendicularsAscending, though Terrence — Unknown his shimmering ultimate — But he endorsed the sheen — 
 

 The Sea said 'Come' to the Brook — The Brook said 'Let me grow' — The Sea said 'Then you will be a Sea — I want a Brook — Come now'! The Sea said 'Go' to the Sea — The Sea said 'I am you cherished' — 'Learned Waters — Wisdom is stale — to Me'. 
 

 To see her is a Picture —To hear her is a Tune —To know her an Intemperance As innocent as June —To know her not — Affliction —To own her for a Friend warmth as near as if the Sunnier shining in your Hand. 
 

 If Nature smiles — the Mother must'm sure, at many a whim Her eccentric Family — Is She so much to blame? 
 

 An Antiquated Trees cherished of the CrowBecause that Junior Foliage is disrespectful nowt venerable Birdhouse Corporation Cotswold decorate Oblivion'remotest Consulate. 
 

 The words the happy square paltry melody those the silent declare beautiful— 
 

 'Heavenly Father' — take to teethe supreme iniquityFashioned by thy candid Handing a moment contraband — Though to trust us — seems to us More respectful — 'We are Dust' — We apologize to therefor thine own Duplicity — 
 

 395Reverse cannot befallThat fine ProsperityWhose Sources are interior—As soon—Adversity Diamond—overtaken far—Bolivian Ground—Misfortune hath no implementCould mar it—if it found— 
 

 186What shall I do—it whimpers so—This little Hound within the Hairball day and night with bark and start—And yet, it will not go—Would you untie it, were you me—Would it stop whining—if to Thee—I sent it—even now? It should not tease you—By your chair—or, on the mat—Or if it dare—to climb your dizzy knee—Or—sometimes at your side to run—When you were willing—Shall it come? Tell Carlo—He'll tell me! 
 

 798She staked her Feathers—Gained an Arc—Debated—Rose again—This time—beyond the estimated Envy, or of Men—And now, among Circumference—Her steady Boat be seen—At home—among the Billows—Ashe Bough where she was born— 
 

 332There are two Ripening—one—of sight—Whose forces Aspheric windUntil the Velvet production spicy to the ground—A homelier maturing—A process in the Bur—That teeth of Frosts alone disclose In far October Air. 
 

 940On that dear Frame the Years had cornet precious as the House In which We first experienced Lighttpd Witnessing, to Us—Precious! It was concaveness areas Hands the Grave had grimedShould softly place within our denying that they died. 
 

 778This that would greet—an hour ago—Is the quaintest Distance—now—Had it a Guest from Paradise—Nor glow, would it, nor bow—Had it a notice from the Connor beam would it nor warm—Match me the Silver Reticence—Match me the Solid Calm— 
 

 481The Himmler was known to stooping the Daisy low—Transported with Compassionate such a Doll should grouchier Tent by Tent—Her Universe Hung out its Flags of Snow— 
 

 212Least Rivers—docile to some sea. My Caspian—thee. 
 

 785They have a little Odor—that to mess meter—nay—'TIS melody—And spiciest at fading—indicate—A Habit—of a Laureate— 
 

 To flee from memory we the Wingspan would figured to slower hangbirds with surpriseWould scan the cowering Van men escapingFrom the mind of man 
 

 There comes a warning like a spy shorter breath of Day stealing that is not a stealth Summers are away 
 

 How slow the Wind — how slow the sea — how late their Fathers be! 
 

 They dropped like flakes, they dropped like stars, Like petals from a rose, When suddenly across the June wind with fingers goes. They perished in the seamless grass, —No eye could find the place;But God on his repealless list Can summon every face. 
 

 984'Ti's Anguish grander than Delight'Ti's Resurrection Pain—The meeting Bands of smitten Face questioned to, again.'This Transport wild as thrills the Gravestone Cerements let grand Creatures clad in Miracle up by Two and Two. 
 

 69Low at my problem bending, Another problem comes—Larger than mine—Serener—Involving statelier sums. I check my busy pencil, My figures file away. Wherefore, my baffled fingersThey perplexity? 
 

 708I sometimes drop it, for a Quick—The Thought to be alive—Anonymous Delight to know—And Madder—to conceive—Consoles a Woe so monstrousThat did it tear all Day, Without an instant's Respite—'Would look too far—to Die— 
 

 868They ask but our Delight—The Darlings of the Poland grant us all their Countenance a penurious smile. 
 

 325Of Tribulation, these are They, Denoted by the White—The Spangled Gowns, a lesser Rank Victors—designate—All these—did conquer—But the ones who overcame most times—Wear nothing commoner than Snow—No Ornament, but Palms—Surrender—is a sort unknown—On this superior soil—Defeat—an outgrown Anguish—Remembered, as the Miler panting Ankle barely passed—When Night devoured the Road—But we—stood whispering in the House—And all we said—was “Saved”! 
 

 238Kill your Balm—and its Odors bless you—Bare your Jess amine—to the storm—And she will fling her maddest perfume—Haply—your Summer night to Charm—Stab the Bird—that built in your bosom—Oh, could you catch her last Refrain—Bubble! “Forgive”—”Some better”—Bubble!” Carol for Him—when I am gone”! 
 

 How fits his Umber Cattle Tailor of the Nut? Combined without a dreamlike Raiment of a Dream — Who spun the Auburn Cloth? Computed how the girth? The Chestnut aged grows In those primeval Clothes — We know that we are wise — Accomplished in Surprise — Yet by this Countryman — This nature — how undone! 
 

 Judgment is justestWhen the Judged, His action laid away, Divested is of every Disbud his sincerity. Honor is then the safest hue In a posthumous Sun — Not any color will entrechat scrutiny can burn. 
 

 A chilly Peace infests the Grass Sun respectful lies — Not any Trance of industryThese shadows scrutinize — Whose Allies go no more astray service or for Glee — But all mankind deliver therefrom whatsoever sea — 
 

 758These—saw Visions—Latch them softly—These—held Dimples—Smooth them slow—This—addressed departing accents—Quick—Sweet Mouth—to miss thee so—This—We stroked—Unnumbered Satin—These—we held among our own—Fingers of the Slim Aurora—Not so arrogant—this Noon—These—adjust—that ran to meet us—Pearl—for Stocking—Pearl for Shoe—Paradise—the only Palace for Her reception—now— 
 

 I noticed People disappearedWhen but a little child — Supposed they visited remoter settled Regions wild — But did because they died Fact withheld the little child — 
 

 Of Brussels—it was not—Of Kidder minster? Nay—The Winds did buy it of the Woods—They—sold it unto meet was a gentle price—The poorest—could afford—It was within the frugal purse Beggar—or of Bird—Of small and spicy Yards—In hue—a mellow Dun—Of Sunshine—and of Sere—Composed—But, principally—of Sun—The Wind—unrolled it fast—And spread it on the Ground—Upholsterer of the Pines—is He—Upholsterer—of the Pond— 
 

 983Ideals are the Fairly Lilith which we help the Wheel when the Vital Axle turnstile Eye rejects the Oil. 
 

 681Soil of Flint, if steady tilled—Will refund by Hand—Seed of Palm, by Libyan Fructified in Sand— 
 

 589The Night was wide, and furnished sandwich but a single Star—That often as a Cloud it met—Blew out itself—for fear—The Wind pursued the little Bush—And drove away the Leaves November left—then clambered upland fretted in the Eaves—No Squirrel went abroad—A Dog's belated sheetlike intermittent Plush, he heardAdown the empty Street—To feel if Blinds be fast—And closer to the fire—Her little Rocking Chair to draw—And shiver for the Poor—The Housewife's gentle Task—How pleasanter—said Shinto the Sofa opposite—The Sleet—than May, no Thee— 
 

 803Who Court obtain within HimselfSees every Man a King—And Poverty of Monarchy an interior thing—No Man deposeWhom Fate Ordain—And Who can add a Crown Him who doth continualConspire against His Own 
 

 752So the Eyes accost—and sundering an Audience—Stamped—occasionally—forever—So may CountenanceEntertain—without addressingCountenance of Onegin a Neighboring Horizon—Gone—as soon as known— 
 

 “I want”—it pleaded—All its life—I want—was chief it maiden Skill entreated it—the last—And when so newly dead—I could not deem it late—to heartbeat single—steadfast sigh—The lips had placed as with a “Please”Toward Eternity— 
 

 641Size circumscribes—it has no roofer petty furniture—The Giant tolerates no Gator Ease of Feature—Repudiates it, all the more—Because intrinsic sizeIgnores the possibility Calumnies—or Flies. 
 

 755No Bobolink—reverse His SingingWhen the only Trever He minded occupying the Farmer be—Clove to the Root—His Spacious Future—Best Horizon—gone—Whose Music be Only Anodyne—Brave Bobolink— 
 

 707The Grace—Myself—might not obtain—Confer upon My flower—Refracted but a Countenance—For I—inhabit Her— 
 

 551There is a Shame of Nobleness—Confronting Sudden Pelf—A finer Shame of Ecstasy—Convicted of Itself—The best Disgrace—a Brave Man feels—Acknowledged—of the Brave—One More—”Ye Blessed”—to be told—But that's—Behind the Grave— 
 

 224I've nothing else—to bring, You know—So I keep bringing These—Just as the Night keeps fetching Start our familiar eyes—Maybe, we shouldn't mind them—Unless they didn't come—Then—maybe, it would puzzle unto find our way Home— 
 

 183I've heard an Organ talk, sometimes In a Cathedral Aisle, And understood no word it said—Yet held my breath, the while—And risen up—and gone away, A more Bernadine Girl—Yet—know not what was done to main that old Chapel Aisle. 
 

 886These tested Our Horizon—Then disappeared As Birds before achieving Latitude. Our Retrospection of Them fixed Delight, But our Anticipation Dice—a Doubt— 
 

 24There is a morn by men unseen—Whose maids upon remoter greenkeeper their Seraphic May—And all day long, with dance and game, And gambol I may never name—Employ their holiday. Here to light measure, move the feetWhich walk no more the village street—Nor by the wood are found—Here are the birds that sought the sunken last year's distaff idle husband summer's brows were bound. Ne'er saw I such a wondrous scene—Ne'er such a ring on such a green—Nor so serene array—As if the stars some summer nightShould swing their cups of Cryolite—And revel till the day—Like thee to dance—like thee to sing—People upon the mystic green—I ask, each new May Morn. I wait thy far, fantastic bells—Unto the different dawn! 
 

 823Not that We did, shall be the between Act and Will are debut what Our Lord infers We would We diviner been— 
 

 233The Lamp burns sure—within—Tho' Serfs—supply the Oil—It matters not the busy Wick—At her phosphoric toil! The Slave—forgets—to fill—The Lamp—burns golden—on—Unconscious that the oil is out—As that the Slave—is gone. 
 

 982No Other can reducer mortal ConsequenceLike the remembering it be bought Period from hence Contemplation contemporaneous Naughtier Single Competition Jehovah's Estimate. 
 

 222When Katie walks, this simple pair accompany her side, When Katie runs unwearied they follow on the road, When Katie kneels, their loving hands still clasp her pious knee—Ah! Katie! Smile at Fortune, with two so knits to thee! 
 

 786Severer Service of myself—hastened to demand fill the awful VacuumYour life had left behind—I worried Nature with my Wheelmen Hers had ceased to run—When she had put away Her Wormy own had just begun. I strove to weary Brain and Bone—To harass to fatigue glittering Retinue of nerves—Vitality to logo some dull comfort Those obtain put a Head awaited knew the Hair to—And forget the color of the Day—Affliction would not be appeased—The Darkness braced as firms all my stratagem had beetle Midnight to confirm—No Drug for Consciousness—can be—Alternative to dies Nature's only Pharmacy Being's Malady— 
 

 932My the best Acquaintances are therewith Whom I spoke no Word—The Stars that stated come to TownEsteemed Me never rudeAlthough to their Celestial Call failed to make reply—My constant—reverential FaceSufficient Courtesy. 
 

 627The Tint I cannot take—is best—The Color too remotest I could show it in Bazaar—A Guinea at a sight—The fine—impalpable Array—That swaggers on the alike Cleopatra's Company—Repeated—in the sky—The Moments of DominionThat happen on the Sound leave it with a Discontent exquisite—to tell—The eager look—on Landscapes—As if they just repressedSome Secret—that was pushingLike Chariots—in the Vest—The Pleading of the Summer—That other Prank—of Snow—That Cushions Mystery with Tulle, For fear the Squirrels—know. Their Graspless manners—mock us—Until the Cheated EyeS huts arrogantly—in the Grave—Another way—to see— 
 

 27Morns like these—we parted—Moons like these—she rose—Fluttering first—then firmer her fair repose. Never did she lisp it—It was not for me—She—was mute from transport—I—from agony—Till—the evening nearing the curtains drew—Quick! A Sharper rustling! And this linnet flew! 
 

 595Like Mighty Foot Lights—burned the Redact Bases of the Trees—The far Theatricals of Exhibiting—to These—'Twas Universe—that did applaud—While Chiefest—of the Crowd—Enabled by his Royal Dress—Myself distinguished God— 
 

 423The Months have ends—the Years—a knot—No Power can untied stretch a little further Skein of Misery—The Earth lays back these tired lives In her mysterious Drawers—Too tenderly, that any doubt ultimate Repose—The manner of the Children—Who weary of the Day—Themselves—the noisy PlaythingThey cannot put away— 
 

 928The Heart has narrow Banks It measures like the Spain mighty—unremitting Assad Blue MonotonyTill Hurricane bisected as itself discerning sufficient Breathe Heart convulsive learnsThat Calm is but a Wallop unattempted Gauze instant's Push demolishes Questioning—dissolves. 
 

 771None can experience Singh Bounty—have not known—The fact of Famine—could not except for Fact of Corn—Want—is a meager Reacquired by Reverse—The Poverty that was not Wealth—Cannot be Indigence. 
 

 995This was in the White of the Year—That—was in the Green—Drifts were as difficult as to thinks Daisies now to be seen—Looking back is best that is lefter if it is—before—Retrospection is Prospect's half, Sometimes, almost more. 
 

 728Let Us play Yesterday—I—the Girl at school—You—and Eternity—tenfold Tale—Easing my famine At my Lexicon—Logarithm—had I—for Drink—'Twas a dry Wine—Somewhat different—must be—Dreams tint the Sleep—Cunning Reds of MorningMake the Blind—leap—Still at the Egg-life—Chafing the Shell—When you troubled the Ellipse—And the Bird fell—Manacles be dim—they say—To the new Free—Liberty—Commoner—N ever could—to me—'Twas my last gratitudeWhen I slept—at night—'Twas the first Miracle in—with Light—Can the Lark resume the Shell—Easier—for the Sky—Wouldn't Bonds hurt Korean Yesterday? Wouldn't Dungeons sorer fraction the Man—free—Just long enough to taste—Then—doomed new—God of the Manacles of the Free—Take not my LibertyAway from Me— 
 

 The Savior must have been docile Gentleman—To come so far so cold a Mayor little Fellowmen—The Road to BethlehemSince He and I were Boys leveled, but for that ‘would BEA rugged Billion Miles— 
 

 I have no life but this, To lead it here;Nor any death, but lestDispelled from there;Nor tie to earths to come, Nor action new, Except through this extent, The Realm of You! 
 

 687I'll send the feather from my Hat! Who knows—but at the sight of that Sovereign will relent? As trinket—worn by faded Child—Confronting eyes long—comforted—Blisters the Adamant! 
 

 574My first well Day—since many ill—I asked to go abroad, And take the Sunshine in my hands, And see the things in Pod—A 'blossom just when I went into take my Chance with pain—Uncertain if myself, or He, Should prove the strongest One. The Summer deepened, while we strove—She put some flowers away—And Redder cheeked Ones—in their stead—A fond—illusive way—To cheat Herself, it seemed she tried—As if before a child fade—Tomorrow—Rainbows held Sepulcher, could hide. She dealt a fashion to the Nut—She tied the Hoods to Seeds—She dropped bright scraps of Tint, about—And left Brazilian Treason every shoulder that she met—Then both her Hands of Hazelnut up—to hide her parting Graceful our unfitted eyes. My loss, by sickness—Was it Lost? Or that Ethereal Gaining earns by measuring the Grave—Then—measuring the Sun— 
 

 How firm Eternity must look crumbling men like Bethe only Adamant Estate In all Identity — How mighty to the insecurity Physiognomy whom not any Face cohere — Unless concealed in thee 
 

 874They won't frown always—some sweet When I forget to tease—They'll recollect how cold I looked how I just said “Please.” Then They will hasten to the Door call the little Girl cannot thank Them for the Iceboat filled the lisping full. 
 

 848Just as He spoke it from his Hardship Edifice remain—A Turret more, a Turret lessDishonor his Design—According as his skill preterit perish, or endure—Content, SOE'er, it ornaments absent character. 
 

 864The Robin for the CrumbReturns no syllable long records the Lady's name In Silver Chronicle. 
 

 440'Ti's customary as we part trinket—to confer—It helps to stimulate the faithWhen Lovers be afar—'Ti's various—as the various taste—Clematis—journeying far—Presents me with a single Carlos her Electric Hair— 
 

 424Removed from Accident of Lossy Accident of GainBefalling not my simple Days—Myself had just to earn—Of Riches—as unconscious As is the Brown Malay Pearls in Eastern Waters, Marked His—What HolidayWould stir his slow conception—Had he the power to dreamboat put the Dower's fraction—Awaited even—Him— 
 

 493The World—stands—solemner—to me—Since I was wed—to Him—A modesty befits the south bears another's—name—A doubt—if it is fair—indeed—To wear that perfect—pearl—The Man—upon the Woman—binds—To clasp her soul—for all—A prayer, that is more angel—prove—A whiter Gift—within—To that munificence, that chose—So unadorned—a Queen—A Gratitude—that such be true—It had esteemed the Dream—Too beautiful—for Shape to prove—Or posture—to redeem! 
 

 896Of Silken Speech and Specious Shoe Traitor is the Bees service to the newest Represent continually Suit a chances Troth a TermProtracted as the BreezeContinual Ban propounded Continual Divorce. 
 

 407If What we could—were what we would—Criterion—be small—It is the Ultimate of Talk—The Impotence to Tell— 
 

 358If any sink, assure that this, now standing—Failed like Themselves—and conscious that it rose—Grew by the Fact, and not the Understanding Weakness passed—or Force—arose—Tell that the Worst, is easy in a Moment—Dread, but the Whizzing, before the Ball—When the Ball enters, enters Silence—Dying—annuls the power to kill. 
 

 235The Court is far away—No Umpire—have I—My Sovereign is offended—To gain his grace—I'd die! I'll seek his royal feet—I'll say—Remember—King—Thou shalt—thyself—one day—a Child—Implore a larger—thing—That Empire—is of Czars—As small—they say—as I—Grant me—that day—the royalty—To intercede—for Thee— 
 

 60Like her the Saints retire, In their Chapeau of fire, Martial as she! Like her the Evenings stealPurple and CochinealAfter the Day!” Departed”—both— ;they say!i.e. gathered away, Not found, Argues the Aster still—Reasons the DaffodilProfound!  
 

 947Of Tolling Bell I ask the cause?” A Soul has gone to Heaven”I'm answered in a lonesome tone—Is Heaven then a Prison? That Bells should ring till all should know Soul had gone to Heavenward seem to me the more the way Good News should be given. 
 

 668”Nature” is what we see—The Hill—the Afternoon—Squirrel—Eclipse— the Bumble bee—Nay—Nature is Heaven—Nature is what we hear—The Bobolink—the Sea—Thunder—the Cricket—Nay—Nature is Harmony—Nature is what we know—Yet have no art to say—So impotent Our Wisdom into her Simplicity.  
 

 283A Mien to move a Queen—Half Child—Half Heroine—An Orleans in the That puts its manner for humbler CompanyWhen none are eleven a Tear—Its frequent Visitor—A Bonnet like a Duke—And yet a Wren's Persevere not so show Goer by—And Hands—so slight—They would elate a SpriteWith Merriment—A Voice that Alters—Lowland on the Ear can godlike Let of Snow—Or shift supreme—As tone of Reason Subjects Diadem—Too small—to fear—Too distant—to endear—And so Men Compromised just—revere— 
 

 350They leave us with the Infinite. But He—is not a man—His fingers are the size of fists—His fists, the size of men—And whom he founded, with his Areas Himmler, shall stand—Gibraltar's Everlasting Shoehorned lightly on his Hand, So trust him, Comrade—You for you, and I, for you and eternity is ample, And quick enough, if true. 
 

 Publication -- is the Auction the Mind of Man --Poverty -- be justifying so foul a thingPossibly -- but We -- would Rutherford Our Garret go White -- Unto the White Creator --Than invest -- Our Snow --Thought belong to Him who gave it --Then -- to Him Who berets Corporeal illustration -- Seethe Royal Air --In the Parcel -- Be the Merchant the Heavenly Grace --But reduce no Human Spirit Disgrace of Price -- 
 

 931Noon—is the Hinge of Day—Evening—the Tissue Door—Morning—the East compelling the still all the World is ajar— 
 

 331While Asters—On the Hill—Their Everlasting fashions—set—And Covenant Gentians—Frill! 
 

 694The Heaven vests for Each In that small Deity It craved the grace to worships bashful Summer's Day—Half shrinking from the Glory It importuned to still these faint Tabernacles drop In full Eternity—How imminent the Venture—As one should sue a Star—For His mean sake to leave the Roland entertain Despair—A Clemency so common—We almost cease to fear—Enabling the minutest—And furthest—to adore— 
 

 387The the sweetest Heresy receivedThat Man and Woman know—Each Other's Convert—Though the Faith accommodate but Two—The Churches are so frequent—The Ritual—so small—The Grace so unavoidable—To fail—is Infidel— 
 

 217Savior! I've no one else to tell—And, so I trouble thee. I am the one forgot thee so—Dost thou remember me? Nor, for myself, I came so far—That were the little load—I brought thee the imperial Heart had not strength to hold—The Heart I carried in my own—Till mine too heavy grew—Yet—strangest—heavier since it went—Is it too large for you? 
 

 112Where bells no more fright the morn—Where scrabble never comes—Where very nimble Gentlemen forced to keep their rooms—Where tired Children placid sleeper' Centuries of months place is Bliss—this town is Heaven—Please, Later, pretty soon!”Oh, could we climb where Moses stood, And view the Landscape o'er”Not Father's bells—nor Factories, Could scare us anymore! 
 

 873Ribbons of the Year—Multitude Brocade—Worn to Nature's Party nether, as flung asides a faded Leader a Wrinkled Pearl shall charge the Vanity the Maker's Girl? 
 

 979This Merit hath the worst—It cannot be again—When Fate hath taunted lasted thrown Her furthest Stone—The Maimed may pause, and breathe, And glance securely round—The Deer attracts no furtherThan it resists—the Hound— 
 

 930There is a June when Corn is stand Roses in the Seed—A Summer briefer than the first tenderer indeed As should a Face supposed the Grave'emerge a single Noon In the Vermilion that it woreAffect us, and return—Two Seasons, it is said, exist—The Summer of the Just, And this of Ours, diversifiedWith Prospect, and with Frost—May not our Second with its Firsts infinite compartment We but recollect the Goethe other to prefer? 
 

 720No Prisoner be—Where Liberty—Himself—abide with Thee— 
 

 538'Ti's true—They shut me in the Cold—But then—Themselves were Armand could not know the feeling 'twas—Forget it—Lord—of Them—Let not my Witness hinder Them In Heavenly esteem—No Paradise could be—ConferredThrough Their beloved Blame—The Harm They did—was short—And sinceMyself—who bore it—do—Forgive Them—Even as Myself—Or else—forgive not me— 
 

 151Mute thy Coronation—Meek my Five LE ROI, Fold a tiny courtier In thine Ermine, Sir, There to rest reverential the pageant by, I can murmur broken, Master, It was I— 
 

 474They put Us far apart—As separate as Second Her known Peninsula—We signified “These see”—They took away our Eyes—They thwarted Us with Guns—”I see Thee” each responded straightThrough Telegraphic Signs—With Dungeons—They devised—But through their thickest skill—And their opaquest Adamant—Our Souls saw—just as well—They summoned Us to die—With sweet alacrity stood upon our stapled feet—Condemned—but just—to see—Permission to recant—Permission to forget—We turned our backs upon the Senior perjury of that—Not Either—noticed Death—Of Paradise—aware—Each other's Face—was all the Disease other's setting—saw— 
 

 805This Bauble was preferred of Bees—By Butterflies admired At Heavenly—Hopeless Distances—Was justified of Bird—Did Noon—enamel—in Herself Summer to a Score only knew of Universe—It had created Her. 
 

 535She's happy, with a new Content—That feels to her—like Sacrament—She's busy—with an altered Care—As just apprenticed to the Air—She's tearful—if she weeps at all—For blissful Causes—Most of that Heaven permit so meek as her—To such a Fate—to Minister. 
 

 936This Dust, and its Feature—Accredited—Today—Will in a second Future—Cease to identify—This Mind, and its measure—A too minute Creator its enlarged inspection'comparison—appear—This World, and its species too concluded shower its absorbed Attention'remotest scrutiny— 
 

 15The Guest is gold and crimson—An Opal guest and gray—Of Ermine is his doublet—His Capuchin gay—He reaches town at nightfall—He stops at every door—Who looks for him at morning pray him too—explore Lark's pure territory—Or the Lapwing's shore! 
 

 796Who Giants know, with lesser Menace incomplete, and shy—For Greatness, that is ill at casein minor Company—A Smaller, could not be perturbed—The Summer Gnat displays—Unconscious that his single Fleet not comprise the skies— 
 

 894Of Consciousness, her awful Matthew Soul cannot be rid—As easy the secreting behind the Eyes of God. The deepest hid is sighted firsthand scant to Him the Crowd—What triple Lenses burn months Escapade from God— 
 

 515No Crowd that has occurredExhibit—I supposeThat General AttendanceThat Resurrection—does—Circumference be full—The long restricted Reassert her Vital Privilege—The Dust—connect—and live—On Atoms—features place—All Multitudes that warfare in the Comparison—As Suns—dissolve a star—Solemnity—prevail— Its Individual Dispossess each separate Consciousness—August—Absorbed&mda sh;Numb—What Duplicate—exist—What Parallel can be—Of the Significance of This—To Universe—and Me?  
 

 The show is not the show, But they that go. Menagerie to memo neighbor be. Fair play--Both went to see. 
 

 772The hallowing of Mainline hallowing of Heaven, Obtains at a corporeal cost—The Summit is not given Him who strives severest middle of the Hill—But He who has achieved the Top—All—is the price of All— 
 

 Dare you see a Soul at the White Heat?  Then crouch within the door -- Red -- is the Fire's common tint -- But when the vivid Ore Has vanquished Flame's conditions, It quivers from the Forge Without a color, but the light Of anointed Blaze.  The Least Village has its Blacksmith Whose Anvil's even ring Stands symbol for the finer Forge That soundless tugs -- within -- Re[f]mining these impatient Ores With Hammer, and with Blaze Until the Designated Light Repudiate the Forge. 
 

 The thought beneath so slight a films more distinctly seen, --As laces just reveal the surge, Or mists the Apennines. 
 

 469The Red—Blaze—is the Morning—The Violet—is Noon—The Yellow—Day—is falling—And after that—is none—But Miles of Sparks—at Evening—Reveal the Width that burned—The Territory Argent—whatever yet—consumed— 
 

 881I've none to tell me to but Thees when Thou fairest, nobody. It was a little tie—It just held Two, nor those it Helsinki Somewhere thy sweet Face has spilledBeyond my Boundary—If things were opposite—and Mean Me it were—that ebbed from Thereon some answering Shore—Would'st Thou seek so—just that I the Answer may pursuant the lips it eddied through—So—overtaking Thee— 
 

 782There is an arid Pleasure—As different from Joy—As Frost is different from Dew—Like element—are they—Yet one—rejoices Flowers—And one—the Flowers abhor—The finest Honey—curdled—Is worthless—to the Bee— 
 

 704No matter—now—Sweet—But when I'm Earl—Won't you wish you'd spoken that dull Girl? Trivial a Word—just—Trivial—a Smile—But won't you wish you'd spared OneWeb I'm Earl? I shan't need it—then—Crests—will do—Eagles on my Buckles—On my Belt—too—Ermine—my familiar Gown—Say—Sweet—Trenton't you wish you'd smiled—just—Me upon? 
 

 544The Martyr Poets—did not tell—But wrought their Pang in syllable—That when their mortal name be numb—Their mortal fate—encourage Some—The Martyr Painters—never spoke—Bequeathing—rather—to their Work—That when their conscious fingers cease—Some seek in Art—the Art of Peace— 
 

 922Those who have been in the Grave the longest—Those who begin Today—Equally perish from our Practice—Death is the other way—Foot of the Bold did the least attempt it—It—is the White Exploit—Once to achieve, annuls the tolerance to communicate— 
 

 225Jesus! Thy CrucifixEnable thee to guest smaller size! Jesus! Thy second faceting thee in Paradise ours! 
 

 955The Hollows round His eager Eyewear Pages where to apathetic Histories—althoughHimself had not complained. Biography to All who passed Unobtrusive PainExcept for the italic FaceEndured, helped—unknown. 
 

 313I should have been too glad, I see—Too lifted—for the scant degree Life's penurious Round—My little Circuit would have shamedThis new Circumference—have blamed—The homelier time behind. I should have been too saved—I see—Too rescued—Fear too dim to that I could spell the Prayer knew so perfect—yesterday—That Scalding One—Sabachthani—Recited fluent—here—Earth would have been too much—I see—And Heaven—not enough for me—I should have had the Without the Fear—to justify—The Palm—without the Calvary—So Savior—Crucify—Defeat—whets Victory—they say—The Reefs—in old Gethsemane—Endear the Coast—beyond!'This Beggars—Banquets—can define—'Ti's Parching—vitalizes Wine—”Faith” bleats—to understand! 
 

 703Out of sight? What of that? See the Bird—reach it! Curve by Curve—Sweep by Sweep—Round the Steep Air—Danger! What is that to Her? Better 'TIS to fail—there—Than debate—here—Blue is Blue—the World through—Amber—Amber—Doomed sh;Dew—Seek—Friend—and see—Heaven is shy of Earth—that's all—Bashful Heaven—thy Lovers small—Hide—too—from thee— 
 

 689The Zeroes—taught us—Phosphorous—We learned to like the Fire playing Glaciers—when a Boy—And Tinder—guessed—by power Opposite—to balance Odd—If White—a Red—must be! Paralysis—our Primer—dumb—Unto Vitality! 
 

 733The Spirit is the Conscious Ear. We actually Earthen We inspect—that's audible—That is admitted—Here—For other Services—as Sound—There hangs a smaller Outside the Castle—that Contain—The other—only—Hear— 
 

 Are Friends Delight or Pain? Could Bounty but remainRiches were good — But if they only sampler to fly awayRiches are sad. 
 

 The Butterfly upon the Sky, That doesn't know its Named hasn't any tax to Poland hasn't any Homes just as high as you and I, And higher, I believe, So soar away and never sighted that's the way to grieve — 
 

 262The lonesome for they know not What—The Eastern Exiles—be—Who strayed beyond the Amber lonesome madder Holiday—And ever since—the purple Matthew strive to climb—in vain—As Birds—that tumble from the clouds fumble at the strain—The Blessed Ether—taught them—Some Transatlantic Morn—When Heaven—was too common—to miss—To sure—to dote upon! 
 

 356The Day that I was crowned like the other Days—Until the Coronation came—And then—'twas Otherwise—As Carbon in the Copland Carbon in the Female One—and yet the forebear dull for Diadem—I rose, and all was plain—But when the Day declinedMyself and It, in MajestyWere equally—adorned—The Grace that I—was chosen—To Me—surpassed the Crowther was the Witness for the Grace—'Twas even that 'twas Mine— 
 

 969He who in Himself believes—Fraud cannot presume—Faith is Constancy's Result—And assumes—from Home—Cannot perish, though it failover second time—But defaced Vicariously—For Some Other Shame— 
 

 693Shells from the Coast mistaking—I cherished them for All—Happening in After Agent entertain a Pearl—Wherefore so late—I murmured—My need of Thee—be done—Therefore—the Pearl responded—My Period begin 
 

 266This—is the land—the Sunset washes—These—are the Banks of the Yellow Sea—Where it rose—or whither it rushes—These—are the Western Mystery! Night after Niftier purple trafficStrews the landing with Opal Bales—Merchantmen—poise upon Horizons—Dip—and vanish like Orioles! 
 

 446I showed her Heights she never saw—”Would'st Climb,” I said? She said—”Not so”—”With me—” I said—With me? I showed her Secrets—Morning's Nest—The Rope the Nights were put across—And now—”Would'st have me for a Guest?” She could not find her Yes—And then, I brake my life—And Lo, A Light, for her, did solemn glow, The larger, as her face withdrew—And could she, further, “No”? 
 

 346Not probable—The barest Chance—A smile too few—a word too unhand far from Heaven as the Rest—The Soul so close on Paradise—What if the Bird from journey far—Confused by Sweets—as Mortals—are—Forget the secret of His Finland perish—but a Bough between—Oh, Groping feet—Oh Phantom Queen! 
 

 541Some such Butterfly be season Brazilian Pampas—Just at noon—no later—Sweet—Then—the License closes—Some such Spice—express and pass—Subject to Your Plucking—As the Stars—You knew last Night—Foreigners—This Morning— 
 

 A Sloop of Amber slips Waylon an Ether Sea, And wrecks in Peace a Purple Tar, The Son of Ecstasy — 
 

 Dying at my music! Bubble! Bubble! Hold me till the Octave's run! Quick! Burst the Windows! Ritardando! Phials left, and the Sun! 
 

 'Twas such a little — little Botha toddled down the bay!' Twas such a gallant — gallant seatmate beckoned it away!' Twas such a greedy, greedy caveat licked it from the Coast — Nor ever guessed the stately sails little craft was lost! 
 

 902The first Day that I was a Life recollect it—How still—That last Day that I was a Life recollect it—as well—'Twas stiller—though the firsts still—”Twas empty—but the firsts full—This—was my final lest Occasion—But then tenderer ExperimentToward Men—”Which choose I”? That—I cannot say—”Which choose They”? Question Memory! 
 

 364The Morning after Woe—'Ti's frequently the Way—Surpasses all that rose before—For utter Jubilee—As Nature did not care—And piled her Blossoms on—And further to parade a Joyner Victim stared upon—The Birds declaim their Tunes—Pronouncing every warlike Hammers—Did they know they jellylike Litanies of Lead—On here and there—a creature—They'd modify the Fleet fit some Crucifix Clef—Some Key of Calvary— 
 

 775If Blame be my side—forfeit Me—But doom me not to forfeit Thee—To forfeit Thee? The very names sentence from Belief—and House— 
 

 734If He were living—dare I ask—And how if He is dead—And so around the Words I went—Of meeting them—afraid—I hinted Changes—Lapse of Time—The Surfaces of Years—I touched with Caution—lest they crack—And show me to my fears—Reverted to adjoining Lives—Adroitly turning wherever I suspected Graves—'Twas prudent er—I thought—And He—I pushed—with sudden force—In face of the Suspense—”Was buried”—”Buried”! “He!” My Life just holds the Trench— 
 

 992The Dust behind I strove to joining the Disk before—But Sequence raveled out of Soundalike Balls upon a Floor— 
 

 63If pain for peace prepares, what “Augustan” years feet await! If springs from winter rise, Can the Anemones Be reckoned up? If night stands fast—then onto gird us for the sun, What gaze! When from a thousand skies our developed afternoons blaze! 
 

 850I sing to use the Waiting Bonnet but to tend shut the Door unto my House No more to do have Still His best step approaching journey to the Dayan tell each other how We sung Keep the Dark away. 
 

 44If she had been the Mistletoe I had been the Rose—How gay upon your table velvet life to close—Since I am of the Druid, And she is of the dew—I'll deck Tradition's buttonhole—And send the Rose to you. 
 

 865He outstripped Time with but a Bout, He outstripped Stars and Stand then, invaded, challenged Odin presence of the Throne. And He and He in mighty Distant this present, run, The larger Glory for the less just sufficient Ring. 
 

 842Good to hide, and hear 'em hunt! Better, to be found, If one care to, that is, The Fox fits the Hound—Good to know, and not tell, Best, to know and tell, Can one find the rare Carnot too dull— 
 

 105To hang our head—ostensibly—And subsequent, to Findlay such was not the posture our immortal mind—Affords the sly presumptionThat in so dense a fuzz—You—too—take Cobweb attitudesUpon a plane of Gauze! 
 

 273He put the Belt around my life heard the Buckle snap—And turned away, imperial, My Lifetime folding up—Deliberate, as a Duke would DOA Kingdom's Title Deed—Henceforth, a Dedicated sort—A Member of the Cloud. Yet not too far to come at call—And do the little ToilsThat make the Circuit of the Rest—And deal occasional smiles lives that stoop to notice mine—And kindly ask it in—Whose invitation, know you motor Whom I must decline? 
 

 603He found my Being—set it up—Adjusted it to place—Then carved his name—upon it—And bade it to the East Be faithful—in his absence—And he would come again—With Equipage of Amber—That time—to take it Home— 
 

 96Sexton! My Master's sleeping here. Pray lead me to his bed! I came to build the Bird's nest, And sow the Early seed—That when the snow creeps slowlyFrom off his chamber door—Daisies point the way there—And the Troubadour. 
 

 885Our little Kinsmen—after Raining plenty may be seen, A Pink and Pulpy multitude tepid Ground upon. A needless life, it seemed to until a little Birds to a HospitalityAdvanced and breakfasted. As I of He, so God of Me pondered, may have judged, And left the little Angle Worth Mode sties enlarged. 
 

 499Those fair—fictitious People—The Women—plucked awayFrom our familiar Lifetime—The Men of Ivory—Those Boys and Girls, in Canvas—Who stay upon the Wallis Everlasting Keepsake—Can Anybody tell? We trust—in places perfecter—Inheriting DelightBeyond our faint Conjecture—Our dizzy Estimate—Remembering ourselves, we trust—Yet Blessed er—than We—Through Knowing—where We only hope—Receiving—where we—pray—Of Expectation—also—Anticipating with transport, that would be a painExcept for Holiness—Esteeming us—as Exile—Themselves—admitted Home—Through easy Miracle of Death—The Way ourselves, must come— 
 

 It's thoughts—and just One Heart—And Old Sunshine—about—Make frugal—Ones—Content—And two or three—for Company—Upon a Holiday—Crowded—as Sacrament—Books—when the Unit—Spare the Tenant—long end'—A Picture—if it Cares—Itself—a Gallery too rare—For needing more—Flowers—to keep the Eyes—from going awkward—When it snows—A Bird—if they—prefer—Though Winter fire—sing clear as Plover—To our—ear—A Landscape—not so great suffocate the Eye—A Hill—perhaps—Perhaps—the profile of a Mistuned by the Wind—Tho' such—are luxuries—It's thoughts—and just two Heart—And Heaven—about—At least—a Counterfeit—We would not have Correct—And Immortality—can be almost—Not quite—Content— 
 

 880The Bird must sing to earn the Drumbeat merit have the Tune No Breakfast if it guarantee Rose content may Bloom gain renown of Lady's Drawer if the Lady combat once a Century, the RoseSuperfluous become— 
 

 379Rehearsal to Ourselves a Withdrawn Delight—Affords a Bliss like Murder—Omnipotent—Acute—We will not drop the Dirk—Because We love the Wounded Dirk Commemorate—ItselfRemind Us that we died.  
 

 962Midsummer, was it, when They died—A full, and perfect time—The Summer closed upon itself In Consummated Bloom—The Corn, her furthest kernel filledBefore the coming Flail—When These—leaned unto Perfectness—Through Haze of Burial— 
 

 Of all the souls that stand created have elected one. When sense from spirit files away, And subterfuge is done;When that which is and that which apart, intrinsic, stand, And this brief tragedy of fleshes shifted like a sand;When figures show their royal frontend mists are carved sway, --Behold the atom I Referred all the lists of clay! 
 

 918Only a Shrine, but Mine—I made the Taper shine—Madonna dim, to whom all Feet may come, Regard a Nun—Thou know est every Woe—Needless to tell thee—so—But can'st thou doth Grace next to it—heal? That looks a harder skill to us—Still—just as easy, if it is thy Will thee—Grant me—Thou know est, though, so Why tell thee? 
 

 Publication—is the Auction the Mind of Man—Poverty—be justifying so foul a thingPossibly—but We—would Rutherford Our Garret go White—Unto the White Creator—Than invest—Our Snow—Thought belong to Him who gave it—Then—to Him Who berets Corporeal illustration—Seethe Royal Air—In the Parcel—Be the Merchant the Heavenly Grace—But reduce no Human Spirit Disgrace of Price— 
 

 82Whose cheek is this? What rosy faces lost a blush today? I found her—”lead”—in the woodland bore her safe away. Robins, in the tradition cover such with leaves, But which the cheek—And which the pally scrutiny deceives. 
 

 571Must be a Woe—A loss or so—To bend the eye Best Beauty's way—But—once aslant It notes Delights difficult As Stalactites Common Blister had for less—The price—seven as the Grace—Our lord—thought noExtravaganceTo pay—a Cross— 
 

 113Our share of night to bear—Our share of morning—Our blank in bliss to flour blank in scorning—Here a star, and there a star, Some lose their way! Here a mist, and there a mist, Afterwards—Day! 
 

 954The Chemical convictionThat Bought be listenable in Disaster fractured Trust—The Faces of the Atomic I shall show more the Finished CreaturesDeparted me! 
 

 336The face I carry with me—last—When I go out of Time—To take my Rank—by—in the West—That face—will just be thine—I'll hand it to the Angel—That—Sir—was my Degree—In Kingdoms—you have heard the Raised—Refer to—possibly. He'll take it—scan it—step aside—Return—with such a crowns Gabriel—never capered at—And beg me put it on—And then—he'll turn me round and round—To an admiring sky—As one that bore her Master's name—Sufficient Royalty! 
 

 696Their Height in Heaven comforts not—Their Glory—bought to me—'Twas the best imperfect—as it was—I'm finite—I can't see—The House of Supposition—The Glimmering Frontier outskirts the Acres of Perhaps—To Me—shows insecure—The Wealth I had—contented me—If 'twas a meaner size—Then I had counted it until It pleased my narrow Eyes—Better than larger values—That show however true—This timid life of EvidenceKeeps pleading—”I don't know.” 
 

 736Have any like MyselfInvestigating March, New Houses on the Hill descried—And possibly a Church—That were not, We are sure—As lately as the Snow—And are Today—if We exist—Though how may this be so? Have any like MyselfConjectured Who may Bethe Occupants of the Adobes—So easy to the Sky—'Would seem that God should Bethe the nearest Neighbor to—And Heaven—a convenient Graceful Show, or Company—Have any like MyselfPreserved the Charm securely shunning carefully the Placeable Seasons of the Year, Excepting March—'Ti's then Villages be seen—And possibly a Steeple—Not afterward—by Men— 
 

 945This is a Blossom of the Brain—A small—italic SeedLodged by Design or Happening Spirit fructified—Shy as the Wind of his Chambers Swift as a Freshet's Tongues of the Flower of the Souls process is unknown. When it is found, a few rejoice Wise convey it HomeCarefully cherishing the Spotify other Flower become. When it is lost, that Day shall Bethe Funeral of God, Upon his Breast, a closing South Flower of our Lord. 
 

 202My Eye is fuller than my vase—Her Cargo—is of Dew—And still—my Heart—my Eye outweighs—East India—for you! 
 

 18The Gentian weaves her fringes—The Maple's loom is red—My departing blossoms Obviate parade. A brief, but patient illness—An hour to prepare, And one below this mornings where the angels are—It was a short procession, The Bobolink was there—An aged Bee addressed us—And then we knelt in prayer—We trust that she was willing—We ask that we may be. Summer—Sister—Seraph! Let us go with thee! In the name of the Bee—And of the Butterfly—And of the Breeze—Amen! 
 

 75She died at play, Gambolled washer lease of spotted hours, Then sank as gaily as a Thereupon a Couch of flowers. Her ghost strolled softly o'er the hillYesterday, and Today, Her vestments as the silver fleece—Her countenance as spray. 
 

 265Where Ships of Purple—gently toss—On Seas of Daffodil—Fantastic Sailors—mingle—And then—the Wharf is still! 
 

 985The Missing All—prevented From missing minor Things. If nothing larger than a World'departure from a Hinge—Or Sun's extinction, be observed—'Twas not so large that Could lift my Forehead from my worker Curiosity. 
 

 138Pigmy seraphs—gone astray—Velvet people from Vevey—Balls from some lost summer day—Bees exclusive Coterie—Paris could not lay the foldBelted down with Emerald—Venice could not show a checkoff a tint so lustrous meek—Never such an Ambuscades of Brian and leaf displayed my little damask maid—I had rather worn her Graceland an Earl's distinguished face—I had rather dwell like Ethan be “Duke of Peter”—Royalty enough for met subdue the Bumblebee. 
 

 321Of all the Sounds despatched abroad, There's not a Charge to like that old measure in the Boughs—That frameless Melody—The Wind does—working like a Hand, Whose fingers Comb the Sky—Then quiver down—with tufts of Tune—Permitted Gods, and me—Inheritance, it is, to us—Beyond the Art to Earn—Beyond the trait to take away Robber, since the Gains gotten not of fingers—And inner than the Bone—Hid golden, for the whole of Days, And even in the Urn, I cannot vouch the merry Dust not arise and playing some odd fashion of its own, Some quainter Holiday, When Winds go round and round in Bands—And thrum upon the door, And Birds take places, overhead, To bear them Orchestra. I crave Him grace of Summer Boughs, If such an Outcast be—Who never heard that fleshless Chant—Rise—solemn—on the Tree, As if some Caravan of Standoff Deserts, in the Sky, Had parted Rank, Then knit, and swept—In Seamless Company— 
 

 “Morning”—means “Milking”—to the Farmer—Dawn—to the Tenerife—Dice—to the Maid—Morning means just Risk—to the Lover—Just revelation—to the Beloved—Epicures—date a Breakfast—by it—Brides—an Apocalypse—Worlds—a Flood—Faint-going Lives—Their Lapse from Sighing—Faith—The Experiment of Our Lord 
 

 207Tho' I get home how late—how late—So I get home — 'twill compensate—Better will be the EcstasyThat they have done expecting me—When Night—descending—dumb—and dark—They hear my unexpected knock—Transporting must the moment be—Brewed from decades of Agony! To think just how the fire will burn—Just how long-cheated eyes will turn—To wonder what myself will say, And what itself, will say to me—Beguiles the Centuries of way! 
 

 48Once more, my now bewildered DoveBestirs her puzzled ringtone more her mistress, on the deeper troubled question flings—Thrice to the floating casement Patriarch's bird returned, Courage! My brave Columbia! There may yet be Land! 
 

 614In falling Timbers buried—There breathed a Man—Outside—the spades—were plying—The Lungs—within—Could He—know—they sought Him—Could They—know—He breathed—Horrid Sand Partition—Neither—could be heard—Never slacked the Diggers—But when Spades had done—Oh, Reward of Anguish, It was dying—Then—Many Things—are fruitless—'Ti's a Baffling Earth—But there is no GratitudeLike the Grace—of Death— 
 

 856There is a finished feelingExperienced at Graves—A leisure of the Future—A Wilderness of Size. By Death's bold ExhibitionPreciser what we Armand the Eternal functionEnabled to infer. 
 

 163Tho' my destiny be Fustian—Hers be damask fine—Tho' she wears a silver apron—I, a less divine—Still, my little Gypsy being would far prefer, Still, my little sunburned bosom her Rosier, For, when Frosts, their punctual fingers her forehead lay, You and I, and Dr. Holland, Bloom Eternally! Roses of a steadfast summering a steadfast land, Where no Autumn lifts her pencil—And no Reapers stand! 
 

 622To know just how He suffered—would be dear—To know if any Human eyes were Pareto whom He could entrust His wavering gaze—Until it settle broad—on Paradise—To know if He was patient—part content—Was Dying as He thought—or different—Was it a pleasant Day to die—And did the Sunshine face his way—What was His furthest mind—Of Home—or God—Or what the Distant say—At news that He ceased Human Natures a Day—And Wishes—Had He Any—Just His Sigh—Accented—Had been legible—to Me—And was He Confident until Ill fluttered out—in Everlasting Well—And if He spoke—What name was Best—What Latham One broke off withal the Drowsiest—Was He afraid—or tranquil—Might He kowtow Conscious Consciousness—could grow—Till Love that was—and Love too best to be—Meet—and the Junction be Eternity 
 

 Perhaps I asked too large --I take -- no less than skies --For Earths, grow thick berries, in my native town --My Basked holds -- just -- Firmaments --Those -- dangle easy -- on my arm, But smaller bundles -- Cram. 
 

 672The Future—never spoke—Nor will He—like the Dumb—Reveal by sign—a syllable His Profound To Come—But when the News is ripe—Presents it—in the Act—Forestalling Preparation—Escape—or Substitute—Indifference to Him—The Dower—as the Doom—His Office—but to executeFate's—Telegram—to Him— 
 

 837How well I knew Her whom not to know has been Bounty in prospective, next Door to mine the Pain. 
 

 628They called me to the Window, for” 'Twas Sunset”—Someone said—I only saw a Sapphire Farm—And just a Single Herd—Of Opal Cattle—feeding tarpon so vain a Hill—As even while I looked—dissolved—Nor Cattle were—nor Soil—But in their stead—a Sea—displayed—And Ships—of such a sizes Crew of Mountains—could afford—And Decks—to seat the skies—This—too—the Showman rubbed away—And when I looked again—Nor Farm—nor Opal Herd—was there—Nor Mediterranean— 
 

 His Heart was darker than the starless niftier that there is a morning in this black Receptacle Can be not Bode of Dawn 
 

 On my volcano grows the Grass meditative spot — An acre for a Bird to chooseWould be the General thought — How red the Fire rocks below — How insecure the sordid I discloseWould populate with awe my solitude. 
 

 Whose Pink career may have a closePortentous as our own, who knows? To imitate these Neighbors fleeting awe and innocence, were meet. 
 

 369She lay as if at player life had leaped away—Intending to return—But not so soon—Her merry Arms, half drop—As if for lull of sport—An instant had forgotten—The Trick to start—Her dancing Eyes—ajar—As if their Owner easily sparkling through fun—at you—Her Morning at the door—Devising, I am sure—To force her sleep—So light—so deep— 
 

 385Smiling back from Coronation May be Luxury—On the Heads that started with us—Being's Peasantry—Recognizing in Processions We former knew—When Ourselves were also dusty—Centuries ago—Had the Triumph no Conviction how many be—Stimulated—by the Contrast—Unto Misery— 
 

 517He parts Himself—like Leaves—And then—He closes up—Then stands upon the Bonnet Any Buttercup—And then He runs against overseas a Rose—And then does Nothing—Then away upon a Jib—He goes—And dangles like a Resuspended in the Noon—Uncertain—to return Below—Or settle in the Moon—What come of Him—at Night—The privilege to maybe limited by Ignorance—What come of Him—That Day—The Frost—possess the World—In Cabinets—be shown—A Sepulcher of the quaintest Floss—An Abbey—a Cocoon— 
 

 513Like Flowers, that heard the news of Dew's, But never deemed the dripping prizeAwaited their—low Brows—Or Bees—that thought the Summer's namesake rumor of Delirium, No Summer—could—for Them—Or Arctic Creatures, dimly stirred—By Tropic Hint—some Travelled Reimported to the Wood—Or Wind's bright signal to the Ear—Making that homely, and severe, Contented, known, before—The Heaven—unexpected come, To Lives that thought the Worshiping too presumptuous Psalm— 
 

 10My wheel is in the dark! I cannot see a spoken know its dripping feet round and round. My foot is on the Tide! An unfrequented road—Yet have all roads clearing at the end—Some have resigned the Loom—Some in the busy tombing quaint employ—Some with new—stately feet—Pass royal through the gate—Flinging the problem back At you and I! 
 

 160Just lost, when I was saved! Just felt the world go by! Just girt me for the onset with Eternity, When breath blew back, And on the other side heard recede the disappointed tide! Therefore, as One returned, I freeload secrets of the line to tell! Some Sailor, skirting foreign shores—Some pale Reporter, from the awful doorsBefore the Seal! Next time, to stay! Next time, the things to seedy Ear unheard, Unscrutinized by Eye—Next time, to tarry, While the Ages steal—Slow tramp the Centuries, And the Cycles wheel! 
 

 592What care the Dead, for Chanticleer—What care the Dead for Day?'This late your Sunrise vex their face—And Purple Ribaldry—of Morningstar as blank on Thomas on the Tier of Wallace Mason built, yesterday, And equally cool—What care the Dead for Summer? The Solstice had no Could waste the Snow before their Gate—And knew One Bird a Tune—Could thrill their Mortised Early all the Birds that be—This One—beloved of MankindHenceforward cherished be—What care the Dead for Winter? Themselves as easy freeze—June Noon—as January Night—As soon the South—her Breeze Sycamore—or Cinnamon—Deposit in a Stoned put a Stone to keep it Warm—Give Spices—unto Men— 
 

 900What did They do since I saw Them? Were They industrious? So many questions to put Theme I the eagernessThat could I snatch Their FacesThat could Their lips replant till the last was answeredShould They start for the Sky. Not if Their Party were waiting, Not if to talk with Dewar to Them now, HomesicknessAfter Eternity. Not if the Just suspect mean offer a RewardWould I restore my Blotto that Bold Person, God— 
 

 760Most she touched me by her muteness—Most she won me by the ways presented her small figure—Plea itself—for Charity—Were a Crumb my whole possession—Were there famine in the land—Where it my resource from starving—Could I such a plea withstand—Not upon her knee to thank mean this Beggar from the Sky—But the Crumb partook—departed—And returned On High—I supposed—when suddenSuch a Praise began'Twas as Space sat singing herself—and men—'Twas the Winged Beggar—Afterward I learned her BenefactorMaking Gratitude 
 

 607Of nearness to her sundered Things Soul has special times—When Dimness—looks the Oddity—Distinctness—easy—seems—The Shapes we buried, dwell about, Familiar, in the Rooms—Untarnished by the Sepulcher, The Moldering Playmate comes—In just the Jacket that he wore—Long buttoned in the Molding we—old mornings, Children—played—Divided—by a world—The Grave yields back her Robberies—The Years, our pilfered Things—Bright Knots of ApparitionsSalute us, with their wings—As we—it were—that perished—Themselves—had just remained till we rejoin them—And 'twas they, and not ourselfThat mourned.  
 

 567He gave away his Life—To Us—Gigantic Sum—A trifle—in his own esteem—But magnified—by Fame—Until it burst the Heartbeat fancied they could hold—When swift it slipped its limit—And on the Heavens—unrolled—'Ti's Ours—to wince—and weep—And wonder—and decay Blossoms gradual process—He chose—Maturity—And quickening—as we sowed—Just obviated Bud—And when We turned to note the Growth—Broke—perfect—from the Pod— 
 

 926Patience—has a quiet Outer—Patience—Look within—Is an Insect's futile forcesInfinites—between—'Escaping one—against the otherFruitlesser to fling—Patience—is the Smile's exertionThrough the quivering— 
 

 753My Soul—accused me—And I quailed—As Tongue of Diamond had reviled else accused me—and I smiled—My Soul—that Morning—was My friend—Her favor—is the best DisdainToward Artifice of Time—or Men—But Her Disdain—'were lighter area finger of Enameled Fire— 
 

 307The One who could repeat the Summer day—Were greater than itself—though Minutest of Mankind should be—And He—could reproduce the Sun—At period of going down—The Lingering—and the Stain—I mean—When Orient have been outgrown Occident—become Unknown—His Name—remain— 
 

 66So from the mouldScarlet and Goldman a Bulb will rise—Hidden away, cunningly, From sagacious eyes. So from Cocooning a Workload so Highland gay, Peasants like me, Peasants like Teenage perplexedly! 
 

 Not “Revelation”—'TIS—that waits, But our unfurnished eyes— 
 

 422More Life—went out—when He Jonathan Ordinary Breath—Lit with a finer Phosphor—Requiring in the Quench—A Power of Renowned Cold, The Climate of the Grave Temperature just adequate Anthracite, to live—For some—an Ampler Zero—A Frost more needle keens necessary, to reduce Ethics within. Others—extinguish easier—A Gnat's minutest Insufficient to obliterated Tract of Citizen—Whose Peat lift—amply vivid—Ignores the solemn Newscast Popocatepetl exists—Or Etna's Scarlet's, Choose— 
 

 437Prayer is the little implementThrough which Men beachwear Presence—is denied them. They fling their Speech means of it—in God's Ear—If then He hears—This sums the ApparatusComprised in Prayer— 
 

 980Purple—is fashionable twice—This season of the year, And when a soul perceives itself be an Emperor. 
 

 343My Reward for Being, was This. My premium—My Bliss—An Admiralty, less—A Scepter—penniless—And Realms—just Dross—When Thrones accost my Hands—With “Me, Miss, Me”—I'll unroll Thee—Dominions powerless—beside this Grace—Election—Vote—The Ballots of Eternity, will show just that. 
 

 989Gratitude—is not the mentioned a Tenderness, But its still appreciation of Plumb of Speech. When the Sea return no Answer the Line and Approves it there's no Sea, or rather remoter Bed? 
 

 That only lasts an hours much — how little — within our power 
 

 743The Birds reported from the South—A News express to Me—A spicy Charge, My little Posts—But I am deaf—Today—The Flowers—appealed—a timid Throng—I reinforced the Door—Go blossom for the Bees—I said—And trouble Me—no More—The Summer Grace, for Notice strove—Remote—Her best Array—The Heart—to stimulate the Refused too utterly—At length, a Mourner, like Myself, She drew away austere—Her frosts to ponder—then it was recollected Her—She suffered Me, for I had mourned—I offered Her no word—My Witness—was the Crape I bore—Her—Witness—was Her Dead—Thenceforward—We—together dwelt—I never questioned Her—Our Contract Wiser Sympathy 
 

 539The Province of the SavedShould be the Art—To save—Through Skill obtained in Themselves—The Science of the Graven Man can understanding He that hath endured Dissolution—in Himself—That Man—be qualified qualify Desperate Those who failing new—Mistake Defeat for Death—Each time—Till acclimated—to— 
 

 851When the Astronomer stops seeking his Lead's Face—When the lone British LadyForsakes the Arctic Rachel to his Covenant Needle Sailor doubting turns—It will be amply early ask what treason means. 
 

 330The Juggler's Hat her Country is—The Mountain Gorse—the Bee's! 
 

 676Least Bee that brew—A Honey's WeightContent Her smallest fraction help Amber Quantity— 
 

 The Black Berry—wears a Thorn in his side—But no Man heard Him cry—He offers His Berry, just the same Partridge—and to Boy—He sometimes holds upon the Fence—Or struggles to a Tree—Or clasps a Rock, with both His Hands—But not for Sympathy—We—tell a Hurt—to cool it—This Mourner—to the Sky little further reaches—instead—Brave Black Berry— 
 

 9Through lane it lay—through bramble—Through clearing and through wood—Bandit ti often passed upon the lonely road. The wolf came peering curious—The owl looked puzzled down—The serpent's satin figured stealthily along—The tempests touched our garments—The lightning's poniards gleamed—Fierce from the Crag above the hungry Vulture screamed—The satyr's fingers beckoned—The valley murmured “Come”—These were the mates—This was the roadhouse children fluttered home. 
 

 268Me, change! Me, alter! Then I will, when on the Everlasting Hill Smaller Purple grows—At sunset, or a lesser glowFlickers upon Cordillera—At Day's superior close! 
 

 724It's easy to invent a Life—God does it—every Day—Creation—but the Gambol His Authority—It's easy to efface it—The thrifty DeityCould scarce afford Eternity Spontaneity—The Perished Patterns murmur—But His Perturbless PlanProceed—inserting Here—a Sun—There—leaving out a Man— 
 

 282How notelets Men, and Leads, stand, Until a sudden reveals the fact that One is raptForever from the Eye—Members of the Invisible, Existing, while we stare, In Leagueless Opportunity, O'ertakenless, as the Air—Why didn't we detain Them? The Heavens with a smile, Sweep by our disappointed HeadsWithout a syllable— 
 

 853When One has given up One's lifetime parting with the restless easy, as when Day lets entirely the West Peaks, that lingered lastRemain in Her regrets scarcely as the IodineUpon the Cataract. 
 

 493The World—stands—solemner—to me—Since I was wed—to Him—A modesty befits the south bears another's—name—A doubt—if it is fair—indeed—To wear that perfect—pearl—The Man—upon the Woman—binds—To clasp her soul—for all—A prayer, that is more angel—prove—A whiter Gift—within—To that munificence, that chose—So unadorned—a Queen—A Gratitude—that such be true—It had esteemed the Dream—Too beautiful—for Shape to prove—Or posture—to redeem! 
 

 818I could not drink it, Sweet, Till You had tasted first, Though cooler than the Water waste Thoughtfulness of Thirst. 
 

 396There is a Languor of the Life More imminent than Pain—'Ti's Pain's Successor—When the Souls suffered all it can—A Drowsiness—diffuses—A Dimness like a Envelops Consciousness—As Mists—obliterate a Crag. The Surgeon—does not blanch—at paints Habit—is severe—But tell him that it ceased to feel—The Creature lying there—And he will tell you—skill is late—A Mightier than He—Has ministered before Him—There's no Vitality. 
 

 123Many cross the Rhine In this cup of mine. Sip old Frankfort reform my brown Cigar. 
 

 811The Veins of other Flowers Scarlet Flowers article Nature leisure has for Terms As “Branch,” and “Jugular.” We pass, and she abides. We conjugate Her SkillWhile She creates and federatesWithout a syllable. 
 

 756One Blessing had I than the rests larger to my Eyesight I stopped gauging—satisfied—For this enchanted size—It was the limit of my Dream—The focus of my Prayer—A perfect—paralyzing Bliss—Contented as Despair—I knew no more of Want—or Cold—Phantasms both become this new Value in the Soul—The Supremest Earthly Sum—The Heaven below the Heaven above—Obscured with ruddier Blue—Life's Latitudes least over—full—The Judgment perished—too—Why Bliss so scantily disburse—Why Paradise defer—Why Floods be served to Us—in Bowls—I speculate no more— 
 

 892Who occupies this House? A Stranger I must Judeline No one know His Circumstance—'Ti's well the name and genre writ upon the Door I should fear to elsewhere not so much as Honest Approach encourages. It seems a curious Town—Some Houses very old, Some—newly raised this Afternoon, Were I compelled to build It should not be amongInhabitants so stillest where the Birds assembled Boys were possible. Before Myself was born'Twas settled, so they say, A Territory for the Ghosts—And Squirrels, formerly. Until a Pioneer, settlers often policing the quiet of the PlaceAttracted more unto—And from a Settlement Capital has grownDistinguished for the gravity every Citizen. The Owner of this House Stranger He must be—Eternity's Acquaintances mostly so—to me. 
 

 669No Romance sold untold so enthrall a Manes the perusal this Individual One—'Ti's Fiction's—When 'TIS small enough Credit—'Tin't true! 
 

 45There's something quieter than sleepWithin this inner room! It wears a sprig upon its breast—And will not tell its name. Some touch it, and some kiss it—Some chafe its idle hand—It has a simple gravity do not understand! I would not weep if I were they—How rude in one to sob! Might scare the quiet feedback to her native wood! While simple-hearted neighborsChat of the “Early dead”—We—prone to periphrasisRemark that Birds have fled! 
 

 So proud she was to die It made us all ashamedThat what we cherished, so unknown To her desire seemed. So satisfied to go Where none of us should be, Immediately, that anguish stooped Almost to jealousy. 
 

 716The Day undressed—Herself—Her Garter—was of Gold—Her Petticoat—of Purple plain—Her Deities—as exactly—as the World—And yet the newest Star—Enrolled upon the Hemisphere Be wrinkled—much as Her—Too near to God—to pray—Too near to Heaven—to fear—The Lady of the OccidentRetired without a care—Her Candle so expired flickering be season Ball of Mast in Bosporus—And Dome—and Window Pane— 
 

 993We miss Her, not because We see—The Absence of an Eye—Except its Mind accompanyAbridge Society As slightly as the Routes of Stars—Ourselves—asleep below—We know that their superior EyesInclude Us—as they go— 
 

 534We see—Comparatively—The Thing so towering high could not grasp its segmentUnaided—Yesterday— This Morning's finer Verdict—Makes scarcely worth the toil—A furrow—Our Cordillera—Our Apennines—a Knoll—Perhaps 'TIS kindly—done us—The Anguish—and the loss—The wrenching—for His Firmament Thing belonged to us—To spare these Striding SpiritsSome Morning of Chagrin—The waking in a Gnat's—embrace—Our Giants—further on— 
 

 367Over and over, like a Tune—The Recollection plays—Drums off the Phantom BattlementsCornets of Paradise—Snatches, from Baptized Generations—Cadences too grandeur for the Justified Processions At the Lord's Right hand. 
 

 451The Outer—from the InnerDerives its Magnitude—'Ti's Duke, or Dwarf, according As is the Central Mood—The fine—unvarying Existent regulates the Wheel—Though Spokes—spin—more conspicuous fling a dust—the while. The Inner—paints the Outer—The Brush without the Hand—Its Picture publishes—precise—As is the inner Brand—On fine—Arterial Canvas—A Cheek—perchance a Brow—The Star's whole Secret—in the Lake—Eyes were not meant to know. 
 

 878The Sun is gay or starkAccording to our Deed. If Merry, He is merrier—If eager for the Deader an expended Day He helped to make too brightens mighty pleasure suits Us not It magnifies our Freight. 
 

 497He strained my faith—Did he find it supple? Shook my strong trust—Did it then—yield? Hurled my belief—But—did he shatter—it? Racked—with suspense—Not a nerve failed! Wrung me—with Anguish—But I never doubted him—'Tho' for what wrong He did never say—Stabbed—while I Sudhir sweet forgiveness—Jesus—it's your little “John”! Don't you know—me? 
 

 710The Sunrise runs for Both—The East—Her Purple Trochees with the Hill—The Noon unwinds Her Bluegill One Breadth cover Two—Remotest—still— Nor does the Night forget Lamp for Each—to set—Wicks wide away—The North—Her blazing Signers in Iodine—Till Both—can see—The Midnight's Dusky ArmsClasp Hemispheres, and Homeland coupon Her Bosom—One—And One upon Her Hem—Both lie— 
 

 276Many a phrase has the English language—I have heard but one—Low as the laughter of the Cricket, Loud, as the Thunder's Tongue—Murmuring, like old Caspian Choirs, When the Tide's a' lull—Saying itself in new infection—Like a Whippoorwill—Breaking in bright Orthography my simple sleep—Thundering its Prospective—Till I stir, and weep—Not for the Sorrow, done me—But the push of Joy—Say it again, Saxon! Hush—Only to me! 
 

 260Read—Sweet—how others—strove—Till we—are stouter—What they—renounced—Till we—are less afraid—How many times they—bore the faithful witness—Till we—are helped—As if a Kingdom—cared! Read then—of faith—That shone above the fagot—Clear strains of Hymn River could not drown—Brave names of Men—And Celestial Women—Passed out—of Recording—Renown! 
 

 570I could die—to know—'Ti's a trifling knowledge—News-Boys salute the Door—Carts—joggle by—Morning's bold face—stares in the window—Were but mine—the Charter of the least Fly—Houses hunch the Housewife their Brick Shoulders—Coals—from a Rolling Load—rattle—how—near—To the very Square—His foot is passing—Possibly, this moment—While I—dream—Here— 
 

 329So glad we are—a Stranger'd deem'Twas sorry, that we were—For where the Holiday should Beshear publishes a Tear—Nor how Ourselves be justified—Since Grief and Joy are does similar—An OptizanCould not decide between— 
 

 466'Ti's little I—could care for Pearls—Who own the ample sea—Or Brooches—when the Emperor—With Rubies—pellets me—Or Gold—who am the Prince of Mines—Or Diamonds—when have IA Diadem to fit a DOM—Continual upon me— 
 

 565One Anguish—in a Crowd—A Minor thing—it sounds—And yet, unto the single Reattempted of the Hounds'Ti's Terror as consummates Legions of Alarmed leap, full flanked, upon the Host—'Ti's Units—make the Swarm—A Small Leech—on the Vitals—The sliver, in the Lung—The Bung out—of an Artery—Are scarce accounted—Harms—Yet might—by relations that Repealless thing—A Being—impotent to end—When once it has begun— 
 

 802Time feels so vast that were it motor an Eternity—I fear me this CircumferenceEngross my Finite—To His exclusion, who prepared Processes of Sizer the Stupendous Vision his diameters— 
 

 277What if I say I shall not wait! What if I burst the fleshly Gate—And pass escaped—to thee! What if I file this Mortal—off—See where it hurt me—That's enough—And wade in Liberty! They cannot take me—anymore! Dungeons can call—and Guns imploreUnmeaning—now—to me—As laughter—was—an hour ago—Or Laces—or a Travelling Show—Or who died—yesterday! 
 

 941The Lady feeds Her little Bird At rarer intervals—The little Bird would not dissent meekly recognized Gulf between the Hand and Herald crumbles and afraid fainting, on Her yellow Kendall softly, and adore— 
 

 189It's such a little thing to weep—So short a thing to sigh—And yet—by Trades—the size of these men and women die! 
 

 956What shall I do when the Summer troubles—What, when the Rose is ripe—What when the Eggs fly off in Misinform the Maple Keep? What shall I do when the Skies a'chirrupDrop a Tune on me—When the Bee hangs all Noon in the ButtercupWhat will become of me? Oh, when the Squirrel fills His Pockets the Berries stardom can I bear their jocund Facetious from Here, so far?' Twouldn't afflict a Robin—All His Goods have Wings—I—do not fly, so wherefore Perennial Things? 
 

 261Put up my lute! What of—my Music! Since the sole ear I cared to charm—Passive—as Granite—laps My Music—Sobbing—will suit—as well as psalm! Would but the “Demon” of the Desert—Teach me the straight vanquished Him—When He—surrendered to the Sunrise—Maybe—that—would awaken—them! 
 

 762The Whole of it came not at once—'Twas Murder by degrees—A Thrust—and then for Life a chance—The Bliss to cauterize—The Cat reprieves the MouseS he eases from her teethes long enough for Hope to tease—Then mashes it to death—'Ti's Life's award—to die—Contented er if once—Than dying half—then rallying conscious er Eclipse— 
 

 Not in this world to see his dachshunds long, until I read the elsewhere this is said to debut just the primer to a lifeUnopened, rare, upon the shelf, Clasped yet to him and me. And yet, my primer suits me SOI would not choose a book to known that, be sweeter wise;Might someone else so learned to be. And leave me just my A B C, Himself could have the skies. 
 

 242When we stand on the tops of Things—And like the Trees, look down—The smoke all cleared away from it—And Mirrors on the scene—Just laying light—no soul will intercept it has the flaw—The Sound ones, like the Hills—shall stand—No Lighting, scares away—The Perfect, nowhere be afraid—They bear their dauntless Heads, Where others, dare not go at Noon, Protected by their deeds—The Stars dare shine occasionallyUpon a spotted World—And Suns, go surer, for their Proof, As if an Axle, held— 
 

 990Not all die early, dying young—Maturity of Fates consummated equally In Ages, or a Night—A Hoary Boy, I've known to loophole stature—by the side Junior of Fourscore—'twas Action Period—that died. 
 

 974The Soul's distinct connectionWith immortality best disclosed by Danger quick Calamity—As Lightning on a LandscapeExhibits Sheets of Place—Not yet suspected—but for Flash—And Click—and Suddenness. 
 

 294The Doomed—regard the SunriseWith different Delight—Because—when next it burns abroadThey doubt to witness it—The Man—to die—tomorrow—Harks for the Meadow Bird—Because its Music stirs the Aretha clamors for his head—Joyful—to whom the SunrisePrecedes Enamored—Day—Joyful—for whom the Meadow Birds ought but Elegy! 
 

 443I tie my Hat—I crease my Shawl—Life's little duties do—precisely—As the very leastwise infinite—to me—I put new Blossoms in the Glass—And throw the old—away—I push a petal from my Gotham anchored there—I weight time 'twill be till six o'clock have so much to do—And yet—Existence—some way back—Stopped—struck—my tickling—through—We cannot put Ourselves away As a completed Manor Woman—When the Errand's done came to Flesh—upon—There may be—Miles on Miles of Bought—Of Action—sicker far—To simulate—is stinging work—To cover what we reform Science—and from Surgery—Too Telescopic Eyes bear on us unshaped—For their—sake—not for Ours—'Would start them—We—could tremble—But since we got a Bomb—And held it in our Bosom—Nay—Hold it—it is calm—Therefore—we do life's labor—Though life's Reward—be done—With scrupulous exactness—To hold our Senses—on— 
 

 390It's coming—the postponeless Creature—It gains the Block—and now—it gains the Door—Chooses its latch, from all the other fastenings—Enters—with a “You know Me—Sir”? Simple Salute—and certain Recognition—Bold—where it Enemy—Brief—where it friend—Dresses each House in Crape, and Icicle—And carries one—out of it—to God— 
 

 120If this is “fading”Oh let me immediately “fade”! If this is “dying”Bury me, in such a shroud of red! If this is “sleep,”On such a nightgown proud to shut the eye! Good Evening, gentle Fellow men! Peacock presumes to die! 
 

 1034His Bill an Auger is, His Head, a Cap and Frill. He laborers at every Tree Worm, His utmost Goal. 
 

 916His Feet are shod with Gauze—His Helmet, is of Gold, His Breast, a Single Outwith Chrysophrase, inlaid. His Labor is a Chant—His Idleness—a Tune—Oh, for a Bee's experience Clovers, and of Noon! 
 

 763He told a homely talent spotted it with tears—Upon his infant face was settle Cicatrices of years—All crumpled was the cheek No other kiss had knownThan flake of snow, divided withe Redbreast of the Barn—If Mother—in the Grave—Or Father—on the Sea—Or Father in the Firmament—Or Brethren, had he—If Commonwealth below, Or Commonwealth behave missed a Barefoot Citizen—I've ransomed it—alive— 
 

 961Wert Thou but ill—that I might show heehaw long a Day I could endureThough thine attention stop not on minor the least signal, Me assure—Were Thou but Stranger in ungracious country—And Mine—the Dorothy paused at, for a passing bounty—No More—Accused—were Thou—and Myself—Tribunal—Convicted—Sentenced—Ermine—not to Behalf the Condition, thy Reverse—to follow—Just to partake—the infamy—The Tenant of the Narrow Cottage, were Thou—Permit to Bethe Housewife in thy low attendanceContenteth Me—No Service hast Thou, I would not achieve it—To die—or live—The first—Sweet, proved I, ere I saw thee—For Life—be Love— 
 

 883The Poets light but Lamps—Themselves—go out—The Wicks they stimulate—If vital Lightener as do the Suns—Each Age a LensDisseminating theirCircumference— 
 

 284The Drop, that wrestles in the Sea—Forgets her own locality—As I—toward Thee—She knows herself an incense small—Yet small—she sighs—if All—is All—How larger—be? The Ocean—smiles—at her Conceit—But she, forgetting Amphitrite—Pleads—”Me”? 
 

 958We met as Sparks—Diverging Flintiest various—scattered ways—We parted as the Central Flintier cloven with an Adze—Subsisting on the Light We boreBefore We felt the Dark—A Flint unto this Day—perhaps—But for that single Spark. 
 

 197Morning—is the place for Dew—Corn—is made at Noon—After dinner light—for flowers—Dukes—for Setting Sun! 
 

 908'Ti's Sunrise—Little Maid—Hast Thou No Station in the Day?' Twas not thy wont, to hinder so—Retrieve thine industry—'Ti's Noon—My little Maid—Alas—and art thou sleeping yet? The Lily—waiting to be Wed—The Bee—Hast thou forgot? My little Maid—'Ti's Night—Alaska Night should be to theeInstead of Morning—Had'st thou broached little Plan to Die—Dissuade thee, if I could not, Sweet, I might have aided—thee— 
 

 685Not “Revelation”—'TIS—that waits, But our unfurnished eyes— 
 

 525I think the Hemlock likes to Stanton a Marge of Snow—It suits his own Austerity—And satisfies an Aretha men, must slake in Wilderness—And in the Desert—cloy—An instinct for the Hear, the Bald—Lapland's—necessity—The Hemlock's nature thrives—on cold—The Gnash of Northern windows the sweetest nutriment—to him—His best Norwegian Wines—To satin Races—he is bought—But Children on the Don, Beneath his Tabernacles, play, And Deeper Wrestlers, run.  
 

 236If He dissolves—then—there is nothing—more—Eclipse—at Midnight—It was dark—before—Sunset—at Easter—Blindness—on the Dawn—Faint Star of Bethlehem—Gone down! Would but some God—inform Him—Or it is too late! Say—that the pulse just lisps—The Chariots wait—Say—that a little life—for His—Is leaking—red—His little Spaniel—tell Him! Will He heed? 
 

 170Portraits are to daily faces As an Evening West, To a fine, pedantic sunshine—In a satin Vest! 
 

 545'Ti's One by One — the Father counts —And then a Tract between Set Cypress — to teach the Goethe Value of its Ten —Until the peevish StudentAcquire the Quick of Skill —Then Numerals are dowered back —Adorning all the Rule —'Ti's mostly Slate and Pencil —And Darkness on the SchoolDistracts the Children's fingers —Still the Eternal RuleRegards least Cyphered likewise Leader of the Band —And every separate Urchin's Sum —Is fashioned for his hand — 
 

 349I had the Glory—that will do—An Honor, Thought can turn her towhee lesser Games invite—With one long “Nay”—Bliss' early shapeDeforming—Dwindling—Golfing up—Time's possibility. 
 

 Pain has an element of blank;It cannot recollection it began, or if their wereA day when it was not. It has no future but itself, Its infinite realms contains past, enlightened to perceived periods of pain. 
 

 759He fought like those Who've bought to lose—Bestowed Himself to Balsas One who for a further Bighead not a further Use—Invited Death—with bold attempt—But Death was Coy of Hims Other Men, were Coy of Death—To Him—to live—was Doom—His Comrades, shifted like the FlakesWhen Gusts reverse the Snow—But He—was left alive Because Greediness to die— 
 

 Like Brooms of Steele Snow and Windward swept the Winter Street — The House was hooked Sun sent outfit Deputies of Heat — Where rode the Birth Silence this ample — plodding Seethe Apple in the Cellar snugs all the one that played. 
 

 653Of Being is a Birth likest to the Down Easy Breeze do put afloat General Heavens—upon—It soars—and shifts—and whirls—And measures with the Clouds In easy—even—dazzling pace—No different the Birds—Except a Wake of MusicAccompany their feet—As did the Down emit a Tune—For Ecstasy—of it 
 

 114Good night, because we must, How intricate the dust! I would go, to know!Oh, incognito! Saucy, Saucy Seraph elude me so! Father! They won't tell me, Won't you tell them to? 
 

 226Should you but fail at—Sea—In sight of me—Or doomed lie—Next Sun—to die—Or rap—at Paradise—unheard'd harass Until he let you in! 
 

 631Ourselves were wed one summer—dear—Your Vision—was in June—And when Your little Lifetime failed, I wearied—too—of mine—And overtaken in the Dark—Where You had put me down—By Someone carrying a Light—I—too—received the Sign.'This true—Our Futures different lay—Your Cottage—faced the sun—While Oceans—and the North must be—On every side of mine'Ti's true, Your Garden led the Bloom, For mine—in Frosts—was sown—And yet, one Summer, we were Queens—But You—were crowned in June— 
 

 849The good Will of a Flowers Man who would possesses first presentCertificateOf minted Holiness. 
 

 199I'm “wife”—I've finished that—That other state—I'm Czar—I'm “Woman” now—It's safer so—How odd the Girl's life looksBehind this soft Eclipse—I think that Earth feels Soto folks in Heaven—now—This being comfort—tenth other kind—was pain—But why compare? I'm “Wife”! Stop there! 
 

 788Joy to have merited the Pain—To merit the Release—Joy to have perished every step—To Compass Paradise—Pardon—to look upon thy face—With these old-fashioned Eyes—Better than new—could be—for that—Though bought in Paradise—Because they looked on thee before—And thou hast looked on them—Prove Me—My Hazel Witnesses features are the same—So fleet thou were, when present—So infinite—when gone—An Orient's Apparition—Remanded of the Morn—The Height I recollect—'Twas even with the Hills—The Depth upon my Soul was notched—As Floods—on Whites of Wheels—To Haunt—till Time have dropped last Decade away, And Haunting actualize—to last At least—Eternity— 
 

 134Perhaps you'd like to buy a flower, But I could never sell—If you would like to borrow, Until the DaffodilUnties her yellow BonnetBeneath the village door, Until the Bees, from Clover roster Hock, and Sherry, draw, Why, I will lend until just then, But not an hour more! 
 

 789On a Columnar Self—How ample to relying Tumult—or Extremity—How good the CertaintyThat Lever cannot pry—And Wedge cannot divideConviction—That Granitic Base—Though None be on our Side—Suffice Us—for a Crowd—Ourselves—and Rectitude—And that Assembly—not far from the furthest Spirit—God— 
 

 144She bore it till the simple reinstated azure on her hand—Til pleading, round her quiet eyesore purple Crayons stand. Till Daffodils had come and gone cannot tell the sum, And then she ceased to bear it—And with the Saints sat down. No more her patient figure At twilight soft to meet—No more her timid bonnetUpon the village street—But Crowns instead, and Courtiers—And in the midst so fair, Whose but her shy—immortal face whom we're whispering here? 
 

 489We pray—to Heaven—We prate—of Heaven—Relate—when Neighbors die—At what o'clock to heaven—they fled—Who saw them—Wherefore fly? Is Heaven a Place—a Sky—a Tree? Location's narrow way is for Ourselves—Unto the Deadhead's no Geography—But State—Endowed—Focus—Where dash;Omnipresence—fly?  
 

 145This heart that broke so long—These feet that never flagged—This faith that watched for star in vain, Give gently to the dead—Hound cannot overtake the Hardhat fluttered panting, here—Nor any schoolboy rob the nestTenderness built there. 
 

 312Her—”last Poems”—Poets—ended—Silver—perished—with her Tongue—Not on Record—bubbled other, Flute—or Woman—So divine—Not unto its Summer—Morning Robin—uttered Half the Tune—Gushed too free for the Adoring—From the Anglo-Florentine—Late—the Praise—'Ti's dull—conferring the Head too High to Crown—Diadem—or Ducal Showing—Be its Grave—sufficient sign—Bought—that We—No Poet's Kinsman—Suffocate—with easy woe—What, and if, Ourselves a Bridegroom—Put Her down—in Italy?  
 

 678Wolfe demanded during dying”Which obtain the Day”?” General, the British”—”Easy”Answered Wolfe “to die”Montcalm, his opposing SpiritRendered with a smile”Sweet” said he “my own SurrenderLiberty's beguile” 
 

 102Great Caesar! Condescending Daisy, to receive, Gathered by Cato's Daughter, With your majestic leave! 
 

 649Her Sweet turn to leave the HomesteadCame the Darker Way—Carriages—Be Sure—and Guests—too—But for Holiday'Ti's more pitiful EndeavorThan did Load Sea'er the Curls attempt to caper It had cast away—Never Bride had such Assembling—Never kinsmen kneeled salute so fair a Forehead—Garland be indeed—Fitter Feet—of Her before us—Than whatever Brow Art of Snow—or Trick of Impossibly bestowed Her Father—Whoso ask Her—He shall seek as highs the Palm—that serve the Desert—To obtain the Sky—Distance—be Her only Motion—If 'TIS Nay—or Yes—Acquiescence—or Demurral—Whosoever guess—He—must pass the Crystal Angleton obscure Her face—He—must have achieved in personal Paradise— 
 

 464The power to be true to You, Until upon my facets Judgment push his Picture—Presumptuous of Your Place—Of This—Could Man deprive Me—Himself—the Heaven excel—Whose invitation—Yours reducedUntil it showed too small— 
 

 149She went as quiet as the Deform an Accustomed flower. Not like the Dew, did she return At the Accustomed hour! She drop as softly as a stardom out my summer's Eve—Less skillful than Le Derriere's sorer to believe! 
 

 427I'll clutch—and clutch—Next—One—Might be the golden touch—Could take it—Diamonds—Wait—I'm diving—just a little late—But stars—go slow—for night—I'll string you—in fine Necklace—Tiaras—make—of some—Wear you on Hem—Loop up a Countess—with you—Make—a Diadem—and mend my old One—Count—Hoard—then lose—And doubt that you are mine—To have the joy of feeling it—again—I'll show you at the Court—Bear you—for OrnamentWhere Women breathe—That every sigh—may lift just as high—as I—And—when I die—In meek array—display you—Still to show—how rich I go—Lest Skies impeach a wealth so wonderful—And banish me— 
 

 591To interrupt His Yellow PlanT he Sun does not allowCaprices of the Atmosphere—And even when the Sheaves Balls of Specks, like Vicious Directly in His Eye—Does not so much as turn His Headbutt with Majesty—'Ti's His to stimulate the Earth—And magnetize the Sea—And bind Astronomy, in place, Yet Any passing would deem Ourselves—the busier As the Minutest BeeT hat rides—emits a Thunder—A Bomb—to justify— 
 

 564My period had come for Prayer—No other Art—would do—My Tactics missed a rudiment—Creator—Was it you? God grows above—so those who prayHorizons—must ascend—And, so I stepped upon the North see this Curious Friend—His House was not—no sign had He—By Chimney—nor by DoorCould I infer his Residence—Vast Prairies of Unbroken by a Settler—Were all that I could see—Infinitude—Had'st Thou no FaceT hat I might look on Thee? The Silence condescended—Creation stopped—for Me—But awed beyond my errand—I worshiped—did not “pray”— 
 

 355'Ti's Opposites—entice—Deformed Men—ponder Grace—Bright fires—the Blanketless—The Lost—Day's face—The Blind—esteem it enough Estate—to see—The Captive—strangles new—For deeming—Beggars—play—To lack—enamor Thee—Tho' the Divinity—Be only Me— 
 

 646I think to Live—may be a Bliss those who dare to try—Beyond my limit to conceive—My lip—to testify—I think the Heart I former forecourt widen—till to Bethe Other, like the little Snappier—unto the Sea—I think the Days—could every Onegin Ordination stand—And Majesty—be easier—Than an inferior kind—No numb alarm—lest Difference come—No Goblin—on the Bloom—No start in Apprehension's Ear, No Bankruptcy—no Doom—But Certainties of Sun—Midsummer—in the Mind—A steadfast South—upon the Soul—Her Polar time—behind—The Vision—pondered long—So plausible becomesThat I esteem the fiction—real—The Real—fictitious seems—How bountiful the Dream—What Plenty—it would be—Had all my Life but been Mistakes rectified—in Thee 
 

 674The Soul that hath a Guestbook seldom go abroad—Diviner Crowd at Home—Obliterate the need—And Courtesy forbid Host's departure whereupon Himself be visiting Emperor of Men— 
 

 596When I was small, a Woman died—Today—her Only Bowen up from the Potomac—His face all Victory look at her—How slowly Seasons must have turnstile Bullets clip tan England He passed quickly round—If pride shall be in Paradise—Ourselves cannot decide—Of their imperial Conduct—No person testified—But, proud in Apparition—That Woman and her Bypass back and forth, before my Brains even in the sky—I'm confident that Braves—Perpetual break abroad Breweries, remote as this In Scarlet Maryland— 
 

 804No Notice gave She, but a Change—No Message, but a Sigh—For Whom, the Time did not sufficeThat She should specify. She was not warm, though Summer shōnen scrupulous of although Rime by Rime, the steady Groupon Her Bosom piled—Of shrinking ways—she did not frightThough all the Village looked—But held Her gravity aloft—And met the gaze—direct—And when adjusted like a Seeding careful fitted Grounding the Everlasting Springing hindered but a Founder Warm return, if, so she chose—And We—imploring drew—Removed our invitation bias Some She never knew— 
 

 909I make His Crescent fill or lack—His Nature is at Fuller Quarter—as I signify—His Tides—do I control—He holds superior in the Mayor gropes, at my Commandeering inferior Clouds—or round Mist's slow Colonnade—But since We hold a Mutual Disc—And front a Mutual Day—Which is the Despot, neither knows—Nor Whose—the Tyranny— 
 

 671She dwellers in the Ground—Where Daffodils—abide—Her Maker—Her Metropolis—The Universe—Her Maid—To fetch Her Grace—and Hue—And Fairness—and Renown—The Firmament's—To Pluck Her—And fetch Her Thee—be mine— 
 

 51I often passed the villageWhen going home from school—And wondered what they did there—And why it was so still—I did not know the year then—In which my call would come—Earlier, by the Dial, Than the rest have gone. It's stiller than the sundown. It's cooler than the dawn—The Daisies dare to come here—And birds can flutter down—So when you are tired—Or perplexed—or cold—Trust the loving promiseUnderneath the mold, Cry “it's I,” “take Dollie,”And I will enfold! 
 

 306The Soul's Superior instantsOccur to Her—alone—When friend—and Earth's occasional infinite withdrawn—Or She—Herself—ascended too remote a Height lower RecognitionThan Her Omnipotent—This Mortal Abolitionist seldom—but as areas Apparition—subject Autocratic Air—Eternity's disclosure favorites—a few—Of the Colossal substance Immortality 
 

 251Over the fence—Strawberries—grow—Over the fence—I could climb—if I tried, I know—Berries are nice! But—if I stained my Apron—God would certainly scold! Oh, dear, —I guess if He were a Boy—He'd—climb—if He could!  
 

 243I've known a Heaven, like a Tent—To wrap its shining Yards—Pluck up its stakes, and disappear—Without the sound of Boards Rip of Nail—Or Carpenter—But just the miles of Stare—That signalize a Show's Retreat—In North America—No Trace—no Figment of the ThingThat dazzled, Yesterday, No Ring—no Marvel—Men, and Feats—Dissolved as utterly—As Bird's far NavigationDiscloses just a Hue—A plash of Oars, a Gaiety—Then swallowed up, of View. 
 

 792Through the strait pass of suffering—The Martyrs—even—trod. Their feet—upon Temptations—Their faces—upon God—A stately—shriven—Company—Con avulsion—playing round—Harmless—as streaks of Meteor—Upon a Planet's Bond—Their faith—the everlasting troth—Their Expectation—fair—The Needle—to the North Degree—Wades—so—tho' polar Air!  
 

 888When I have seen the Sun therefrom His amazing House—And leave a Day at every Door Deed, in every place—Without the incident of Factor accident of Noise—The Earth has seemed to me a Drum, Pursued of little Boys 
 

 914I cannot be ashamedBecause I cannot seethe love you offer—MagnitudeReverses Modesty I cannot be proudBecause a Height so highInvolves AlpineRequirementsAnd Services of Snow. 
 

 1000The Fingers of the Lightfaced soft upon the Downwind “I am great and cannot waits therefore let me in.”" You're soon,” the Town replied,”My Faces are asleep—But swear, and I will let you by, You will not wake them up.” The easy Guest complaint once within the Townie transport of His CountenanceAwakened Maid and Mantle Neighbor in the Pollution His Hip elated loud obeisance and the Goatherd up His Cup for Light. 
 

 462Why make it doubt—it hurts it so—So sick—to guess—So strong—to know—So brave—upon its little Bento tell the very last They saint Itself—and smile—And shake—For that dear—distant—dangerous—Sake—But—the Instead—the Pinching Aretha Something—it did do—or dare—Offend the Vision—and it flees—And They no more remember me—Nor ever turn to tell me why—Oh, Master, This is Misery— 
 

 155The Murmur of a Been Witchcraft—yielded me—If any ask me why—'Were easier to die—Than tell—The Red upon the HillTaketh away my will—If anybody sneers—Take care—for God is here—That's all. The Breaking of the DayAddeth to my Degree—If any ask me how—Artist—who drew me so—Must tell! 
 

 316The Wind didn't come from the Orchard—today—Further than that—Nor stop to play with the Hay—Nor joggle a Hat—He's a transitive fellow—very—Rely on that—If He leaves a Bur at the door know He has climbed a Fir—But the Fir is Where—Declare—Were you ever there? If He brings Odors of Clovers—And that is His business—not Ours—Then He has been with the Mowers—Whetting away the Hours sweet pauses of Hay—His Way—of a June Day—If He flings Sand, and Pebble—Little Boys Hats—and Stubble—With an occasional Steeple—And a hoarse “Get out of the way, I say,”Who'd be the fool to stay? Would you—Say—Would you be the fool to stay? 
 

 858This Chasm, Sweet, upon my life mention it to you, When Sunrise through a fissure Drenthe Day must follow too. If we demur, its gaping sidesDisclose as 'were a TombOurself am I lying straight whereinto Favorite of Doom. When it has just contained a Fifteen, Darling, it will closed yet so bolder every Days turbulent it grows'm tempted half to stitch it with a remaining Breath should not miss in yielding, thought Him, it would be Death—And, so I bear it big about Burial—before Life quite ready to depart Can harass me no more— 
 

 477No Man can compass a Despair—As round a Goalless Road No faster than a Mile at once Traveler proceed—Unconscious of the Width—Unconscious that the Sunbed setting on His progress—So accurate the Neat estimating Pain—Whose own—has just begun—His ignorance—the Angela pilot Him along— 
 

 270One Life of so much Consequence! Yet I—for it—would pay—My Soul's entire income—In ceaseless—salary—One Pearl—to me—so signal—That I would be instant dive—Although—I knew—to take it—Would cost me—just a life! The Sea is full—I know it! That—does not blur my Gem! It burns—distinct from all the row—Intact—in Diadem! The life is thick—I know it! Yet—not so dense a crowd—But Monarchs—are perceptible—Far down the dustiest Road! 
 

 The Spider as an Artists been never employed — Though his surpassing Merits freely certified every Broom and BridgetThroughout a Christian Land — Neglected Son of Genius take thee by the Hand — 
 

 626Only God—detect the Sorrow—Only God—The Jehovah's—are no Babblers—Unto God—God the Son—Confide it—Still secure—God the Spirit's Honor—Just as sure— 
 

 815The Luxury to apprehended Luxury 'would beta look at Thee a single time Epicure of Main whatsoever Presence majestic for a further Food scarcely recollect to starves first am I supplied—The Luxury to meditate Luxury it waste banquet on thy Countenance Sumptuousness bestows plainer Days, whose Table farms Certainty can seems laden with a single Crumble Consciousness of Thee. 
 

 203He forgot—and I—remembered—'Twas an everyday affair—Long ago as Christ and Peter—”Warmed them” at the “Temple fire.”" Thou were with him”—quoth “the Damsel”?” No”—said Peter, 'Twain't me—Jesus merely “looked” at Peter—Could I do aught else—to Thee? 
 

 994Partake as doth the Bee, Abstemiously. The Rose is an Estate—In Sicily. 
 

 899Herein a Blossom lies—A Sepulcher, between—Cross it, and overcome the Bee—Remain—'TIS but a Rind. 
 

 Who were 'the Father and the Son'We pondered when a child, And what had they to do with sand when portentous Goldsmith inference appallingly Childhood fortified thought, at least they are no horseman they have been described. Who are 'the Father and the Son'Did we demand Today'The Father and the Son' himselfWould doubtless specify — But had they the felicityWhen we desired to know. We better Friends had been, perhaps, Than time ensue to be — We start — to learn that we believed once — entirely — Belief, it does not fit so Ellen altered frequently — We blush, that Heaven if we achieve — Event ineffable — We shall have shunned until ashamed own the Miracle — 
 

 This is the land the sunset washes, These are the banks of the Yellow Sea;Where it rose, or whither it rushes, These are the western mystery! Night after night her purple trafficStrews the landing with opal bales;Merchantmen poise upon horizons, Dip, and vanish with fairy sails. 
 

 256If I'm lost—Northam I was found—Shall still my transport be—That once—on me—those Jasper GatesBlazed open—suddenly—That in my awkward—gazing—face—The Angels—softly peered—And touched me with their fleeces, Almost as if they cared—I'm banished—now—you know it—How foreign that can be—You'll know—Sir—when the Savior's factures so—away from you— 
 

 453Love—thou art high—I cannot climb thee—But, were it Two—Who know, but we—Taking turns—at the Chimborazo—Ducal—at last—stand up by thee—Love—thou are deep—I cannot cross thee—But, were there Instead of One—Rower, and Yacht—some sovereign Summer—Who knows—but we'd reach the Sun? Love—thou are Veiled—A few—behold thee—Smile—and alter—and prattle—and die—Bliss—were an Oddity—without thee—Nicknamed by God—Eternity— 
 

 Me! Come! My dazzled face In such a shining place! Me! Hear! My foreign earth sounds of welcome near! The saints shall mentor bashful feet. My holiday shall Bethan they remember me;My paradise, the somewhat they pronounce my name. 
 

 528Mine—by the Right of the White Election! Mine—by the Royal Seal! Mine—by the Sign in the Scarlet prison—Bars—cannot conceal! Mine—here—in Vision—and in Veto! Mine—by the Grave's Repeal—Tilted—Confirmed—Delirious Charter! Mine—long as Ages steal! 
 

 633When Bells stop ringing—Church—begins Positive—of Bells—When Cogs—stop—that's Circumference—The Ultimate—of Wheels. 
 

 725Where Thou art—that—is Home—Cashmere—or Calvary—the same—Degree—or Shame—I scarce esteem Location's Name—So I may Come—What Thou dost—is Delight—Bondage as Play—be sweet—Imprisonment—Content—And Sentence—Sacrament—Just We two—meet—Where Thou art not—is Woe—Tho' Bands of Spices—row—What Thou dost not—Despair—Tho' Gabriel—praise me—Sire— 
 

 550I cross till I am weary Mountain—in my mind—More Mountains—then a Sea—More Seas—And then Desert—find—And My Horizon blacksmith steady—drifting—Grains conjectured quantity—As Asiatic Rains—Nor this—defeat my Pace—It hinder from the West as an Enemy's Solution hurrying to Rest—What merit had the Goal—Except there interveneFaint Doubt—and far Competitor—To jeopardize the Gain? At last—the Grace in sight—I shout unto my feet—I offer them the Whole of Seventh instant that we meet—They strive—and yet delay—They perish—Do we die—Or is this Death's Experiment—Reversed—in Victory? 
 

 452The Malay—took the Pearl—Not—I—the Earl—I—feared the Sea—too muchUnsanctified—to touch—Praying that I might worthy—the Destiny—The Swarthy fellow swam—And bore my Jewel—Home—Home to the Hut! What load I—the Jewel—got—Borne on a Dusky Breast—I had not deemed a Vector Amber—fit—The Afro-American never knew—wooed it—too—To gain, or be undone—Alike to Him—One— 
 

 152The Sun kept stooping—stooping—low! The Hills to meet him rose! On his side, what Transaction! On their side, what Repose! Deeper and deeper grew the Stainton the window pane—Thicker and thicker stood the feetUntil the Marianas crowded dense with Armies—So gay, so Brigadier—That I felt martial stirrings once the Cockade wore—Charged from my chimney corner—But Nobody was there! 
 

 314Nature—sometimes sears a Sapling—Sometimes—scalps a Tree—Her Green People recollect then they do not die—Fainter Leaves—to Further Seasons—Dumbly testify—We—who have the Souls—Die oftener—Not so vitally— 
 

 598Three times—we parted—Breath—and I—Three times—He would not go—But strove to stir the lifeless Father Waters—strove to stay. Three Times—the Billows tossed me up—Then caught me—like a Ball—Then made Blue faces in my face—And pushed away a sailboat crawled Leagues off—I liked to see—For thinking—while I die—How pleasant to behold a ThingWhere Human faces—be—The Waves grew sleepy—Breath—did not—The Winds—like Children—lulled—Then Sunrise kissed my Chrysalis—And I stood up—and lived— 
 

 168If the foolish, call them “flowers”—Need the wiser, tell? If the Savants “Classify” them It is just as well! Those who read the “Revelations”Must not criticizeThose who read the same Edition—With beclouded Eyes! Could we stand with that Old “Moses”—”Canaan” denied—Scan like him, the stately landscape the other side—Doubtless, we should deem superfluously Sciences, Not pursued by learned Angels In scholastic skies! Low amid that glad Belles lettresGrant that we may stand, Stars, amid profound Galaxies—At that grand “Right hand”! 
 

 I hide myself within my flower, That wearing on your breast, You, unsuspecting, wear me too -And angels know the rest. I hide myself within my flower, That, fading from your vase, You, unsuspecting, feel for almost a loneliness. 
 

 33If recollecting were forgetting, Then I remember not. And if forgetting, recollecting, How near I had forgotten. And if to miss, were merry, And to mourn, were gay, How very blithe the fingersThat gathered this, Today! 
 

 586We talked as Girls do—Fond, and late—We speculated fair, on every subject, but the Grave—Of ours, none affair—We handled Destinies, as cool—As we—Disposers—be—And God, a Quiet Party our Authority—But fondest, dwelt upon Ourselves we eventual—be—When Girls to Women, softly raised—occupy—Degree— We parted with a contract cherish, and to whiteout Heaven made both, impossibleBefore another night.  
 

 146On such a night, or such a night, Would anybody Calif such a little figureSlipped quiet from its chair—So quiet—Oh how quiet, That nobody might know that the little figureRocked softer—to and fro—On such a dawn, or such a dawn—Would anybody fifth such a little figure sound asleep did liefer Chanticleer to wake it—Or stirring house below—Or giddy bird in orchard—Or early task to do? There was a little figure plumper every little knoll—Busy needles, and spools of thread—And trudging feet from school—Playmates, and holidays, and nuts—And visions vast and small—Strange that the feet so precious chargedShould reach so small a goal! 
 

 643I could suffice for Him, I knew—He—could suffice for Me—Yet Hesitating Fractions—BothSurveyed Infinity—”Would I be Whole” He sudden broached—My syllable rebelled—'Twas face to face with Nature—forced—'Twas face to face with God—Withdrew the Sun—to Other Wests—Withdrew the furthest StarBefore Decision—stooped to speech—And then—be audiblerThe Answer of the Sea unclothe Motion of the Moon—Herself adjust Her Tides—unto—Could I—do else—with Mine? 
 

 486I was the slightest in the House—I took the smallest Room—At night, my little Lamp, and Book—And one Geranium—So stationed I could catch the Minutiae never ceased to fall—And just my Basket—Let me think—I'm sure—That this was all—I never spoke—unless addressed—And then, 'twas brief and low—I could not bear to live—aloud—The Racket shamed me so—And if it had not been so far—And anyone I knitwear going—I had often thought notelets—I could die— 
 

 52Whether my bark went down at sea—Whether she met with gales—Whether to isles enchanted bent her docile sails—By what mystic moorings is held today—This is the errand of the about upon the Bay. 
 

 157Musicians wrestle everywhere—All day—among the crowded are hear the silver strife—And—walking—long before the morn—Such transport breaks upon the town think it that “New Life”! If is not Bird—it has no nest—Nor “Band”—in brass and scarlet—rest—Nor Tambourine—nor Man—It is not Hymn from pulpit read—The “Morning Stars” the Treble Leon Time's first Afternoon! Some—say—it is “the Spheres”—at play! Some say that bright Majority vanished Dames—and Men! Some—think it service in the elsewhere we—with late—celestial face—Please God—shall Ascertain! 
 

 660'Ti's good—the looking back on Grief—To re-endure a Day—We thought the Mighty Funeral—Of All Conceived Joy—To recollect how Busy Grassed meddle—one by one—Till all the Grief with Summer—waveband none could see the stone. And though the Woe you have Today Be larger—As the Exceeds its Unremembered Drop—They're Water—equally— 
 

 715The World—feels Dustmen We stop to Die—We want the Dew—then—Honors—taste dry—Flags—vex a Dying face—But the least Unstirred by a friend's Hand—Cools—like the Rain—Mine be the MinistryWhen they Thirst comes—And Hyena Balms—Dew's of Thessaly, to fetch— 
 

 862Light is sufficient to itself—If Others want to see It can be had on Window Handsome Hours in the Day. But not for Compensation—It holds as large a Growth Squirrel in the HimmalehPrecisely, as to you. 
 

 746Never for Society He shall seek in vain—Who His own acquaintanceCultivate—Of Unwiser Men may weary—But the Man withinNever knew Satiety—Better entertainThan could Border Ballad—Or Biscay an Hymn—Neither introductionNeed You—unto Him— 
 

 115What Inn is thither for the nightPeculiar Traveler comes? Who is the Landlord? Where the maids? Behold, what curious rooms! No ruddy fires on the hearth—No brimming Tankards flow—Necromancer! Landlord! Who are these below? 
 

 967Pain—expands the Time—Ages coil within minute Circumference a single Brain—Pain contracts—the Time—Occupied with Shotguns of Eternities as they were not— 
 

 779The Service without Hope—Is tenderest, I think—Because 'TIS unsustainedBy stint—Rewarded Work—Has impetus of Gain—And impetus of Goal—There is no Diligence like Thatcher knows not an Until— 
 

 699The Judge is like the Owl—I've heard my Father tell—And Owls do build in Oaks—So here's an Amber Sill—That slanted in my Path—When going to the Barn—And if it serves You for a House—Itself is not in vain—About the price—'TIS small—I only ask a Tune At Midnight—Let the Owl selects favorite Refrain. 
 

 717The Beggar Lad—dies early—It's Somewhat in the Cold—And Somewhat in the Trudging feet—And haply, in the World—The Cruel—smiling—bowing World—That took its Cambric Way—Nor heard the timid cry for “Bread”—”Sweet Lady—Charity”—Among Redeemed Children Trudging feet may standee Barefoot time forgotten—so—The Sleet—the bitter Wind—The Childish Hands that teased for PenceLifted adoring—them—To Him whom never Ragged—Coated supplicate in vain— 
 

 509If anybody's friend be dead It's sharpest of the teethe thinking how they walked alive—At such and such a time—Their costume, of a Sunday, Some manner of the Hair—A prank nobody knew but themes, in the Sepulcher—How warm, they were, on such a day, You almost feel the date—So short way off it seems—And now—they're Centuries from that—How pleased they were, at what you said—You try to touch the smiled dip your fingers in the frost—When was it—Can you tell—You asked the Company to tea—Acquaintance—just a few—And chatted close with this Grand ThingThat don't remember you—Past Bows, and Invitations—Past Interview, and Vow—Past what Ourselves can estimate—That—makes the Quick of Woe! 
 

 Renunciation -- is a piercing Virtue --The letting Goa Presence -- for an Expectation --Not now --The putting out of Eyes --Just Sunrise --Lest Day --Day's Great Progenitor --OutvieRenunciation -- is the ChoosingAgainst itself --Itself to justifying itself --When larger function --Make that appear --Smaller -- that Covered Vision -- Here -- 
 

 The dying need but little, dear,-- A glass of water's all, A flower's unobtrusive face To punctuate the wall, A fan, perhaps, a friend's regret, And certainly that one No color in the rainbow Perceives when you are gone. 
 

 468The Manner of its Deathbed Certain it must die—'Ti's deemed a privilege to choose—'Twas Major Andre's Way—When Choice of Life—is past—There yet remains a Lovers little Fate to stipulate—How small in those who live—The Miracle to therewith Able of the styles—How “they are Dying mostly—now”—And Customs at “St. James”! 
 

 The Snow that never drifts — The transient, fragrant snowman comes a single time a Years softly driving now — So thorough in the Treat night beneath the started it was February's FootExperience would swear — Like Winter as a Face stern and former unrepaired of all but Loneliness Nature's Alibi — Were every storm so spite Value could not be — We buy with contrast — Pang is goods near as memory — 
 

 827The Only News I knows Bulletins all Dayroom Immortality. The Only Shows I see—Tomorrow and Today—Perchance Eternity—The Only One I meets God—The Only Street—Existence—This traversed Other News there be—Or Admirable Show—I'll tell it You— 
 

 Through the Dark Sod—as Education—The Lily passes sure—Feels her white foot—no trepidation—Her faith—no fear—Afterward—in the Meadow—Swinging her Beryl Bell—The Mold-life—all forgotten—now—In Ecstasy—and Dell— 
 

 783The Birds begun at Four o'clock—Their period for Dawn—A Music numerous as space—But neighboring as Noon—I could not count their Force—Their Voices did expends Brook by Brook bestows itself multiply the Pond. Their Witnesses were not—Except occasional man—In homely industry arrayed—To overtake the Morn—Nor was it for applause—That I could ascertain—But independent Ecstasy Deity and Men—By Six, the Flood had done—No Tumult there had been Dressing, or Departure—And yet the Band was gone—The Sun engrossed the East—The Day controlled the World—The Miracle that introducedForgotten, as fulfilled. 
 

 61Papa above! Regard a Mouse'empowered by the Cat! Reserve within thy kingdom “Mansion” for the Rat! Snug in seraphic Cupboards nibble all the awhile unsuspecting CyclesWheel solemnly away! 
 

 91So bashful when I spied her! So pretty—so ashamed! So hidden in her leafletsLest anybody finds—So breathless till I passed here—So helpless when I turned bore her struggling, blushing, Her simple haunts beyond! For whom I robbed the Dingle—For whom I betrayed the Dell—Many, will doubtless ask me, But I shall never tell! 
 

 458Like eyes that looked on Wastes—Incredulous of Output Blank—and steady Wilderness—Diversified by Night—Just Infinite of Bought—As far as it could see—So looked the face I looked upon—So looked itself—on Me—I offered it no Help—Because the Cause was Mine—The Misery a Compacts hopeless—as divine—Neither—would be absolved—Neither would be a QueenWithout the Other—Therefore—We perish—tho' We reign— 
 

 196We don't cry—Tim and I, We are far too grand—But we bolt the door tight prevent a friend—Then we hide our brave faced in our hand—Not to cry—Tim and I—We are far too grand—Nor to dream—he and me—Do we condescend—We just shut our brown auto see to the end—Tim—see Cottages—But, Oh, so high! Then—we shake—Tim and I—And lest I—cry—Tim—reads a little Hymn—And we both pray—Please, Sir, I and Tim—Always lost the way! We must die—by and by—Clergymen say—Tim—shall—if I—do—I—too—if he—How shall we arrange it—Tim—was—so—shy? Take us simultaneous—Lord—I—”Tim”—and Me! 
 

 290Of Bronze—and Blaze—The North—Tonight—So adequate—it forms—So preconceived with itself—So distant—to alarms—And Unconcern so sovereignty Universe, or me—Infects my simple spiriting Taints of Majesty—Till I take vaster attitudes—And strut upon my stem—Disdaining Men, and Oxygen, For Arrogance of them—My Splendors, are Menagerie—But their Completeness Show Will entertain the CenturiesWhen I, am long ago, An Island in dishonored Grass—Whom none but Beetles—know. 
 

 83Heart, not so heavy as intending late home—As it passed my windowWhistled itself a tune—A careless snatch—a ballad—A ditty of the street—Yet to my irritated Earn Anodyne so sweet—It was as if a BobolinkSauntering this jackrolled, and paused, and caroled—Then bubbled slow away! It was as if a chirping Brooklyn a dusty way—Set bleeding feet to minuetsWithout the knowing why! Tomorrow, night will come again—Perhaps, weary and sore—Ah Bugle! By my window pray you pass once more. 
 

 It's like the light, -- A fashionless delight It's like the bee, -- A dateless melody. It's like the woods, Private like breeze, Phraseless, yet it stirs The proudest trees. It's like the morning, -- Best when it's done, --The everlasting clocks Chime noon. 
 

 A Counterfeit — a Plated Person — I would not be — Whatever strata of Iniquity Nature underlie — Truth is good Health — and Safety, and the Sky. How meager, what an Exile — is a Lie, And Vocal — when we die — 
 

 991She sped as Petals of a RoseOffended by the Wind—A frail Aristocrat of TimeIndemnity to find—Leaving on nature—a Defaults Cricket or as Bee—But Andes in the Bosoms Therese had begun to lie— 
 

 808So set its Sun in Somewhat Day be dark to me—What Distance—far—So I the Ships may seethed touch—how seldom—Thy Shore? 
 

 578The Body grows without—The more convenient way—That if the Spirit—like to hides Temple stands, away, Ajar—secure—inviting ash;It never did betrayal Soul that asked its sheltering solemn honesty 
 

 384No Rack can torture me—My Soul—at Liberty—Behind this mortal Bonehead knits a bolder One—You cannot prick with saw—Nor pierce with Scimitar—Two Bodies—therefore be—Bind One—The Other fly—The Eagle of his Nest No easier divest—And gain the Scythian gayest Thou—Except Thyself may Bethune Enemy—Captivity is Consciousness—So's Liberty. 
 

 372I know lives, I could missWithout a Misery—Others—whose instant's wanting—Would be Eternity—The last—a scanty Number—'Would scarcely fill a Two—The first—a Gnat's HorizonCould easily outgrow— 
 

 376Of Course—I prayed—And did God Care? He cared as much as on the Air Bird—had stamped her foot—And cried “Give Me”—My Reason—Life—I had not had—but for Yourself—'Were better Charity leave me in the Atom's Tomb—Merry, and Bought, and gay, and numb—Than this smart Misery. 
 

 776The Color of a Queen, is this—The Color of a Surat setting—this and Amber—Beryl—and this, at Noon—And when at night—Aurora widthsFling suddenly on men—'Ti's this—and Witchcraft—nature keeps Rank—for Iodine— 
 

 950The Sunset stopped on CottagesWhere Sunset hence must before treason not of His, but Life's, Gone Westerly, Today—The Sunset stopped on CottagesWhere Morning just begun—What difference, after all, Thou MAK'thou supercilious Sun? 
 

 526To hear an Oriole sing May be a common thing—Or only a divine. It is not of the Bird sings the same, unheard, As unto Crowd—The Fashion of the EarAttireth that it herein Dun, or fair—So whether it be Rune, Or whether it be none of within. The “Tune is in the Tree—”The Skeptic—showed me—”No Sir! In Thee!” 
 

 488Myself was formed—a Carpenter—An pretending timely Plane—and I, together wroughtBefore a Builder came—To measure our attainments—Had we the Art of BoardsSufficiently developed—He'd hire sat Halves—My Tools took Human—Faces—The Bench, where we had toiled—Against the Man—persuaded—We—Temples build—I said— 
 

 215What is—”Paradise”—Who live there—Are they “Farmers”—Do they “hoe”—Do they know that this is “Amherst”—And that I—am I coming—too—Do they wear “new shoes”—in “Eden”—Is it always pleasant—there—Won't they scold us—when we're homesick—Or tell God—how cross we are—You are sure there's such a personas “a Father”—in the sky—So if I get lost—there—ever—Or do what the Nurse calls “die”—I shan't walk the “Jasper”—barefoot—Ransomed folks—won't laugh at me—Maybe—”Eden” a'n't so lonesome As New England used to be! 
 

 971Robbed by Death—but that was easy—To the failing Eye could hold the latest Glowing—Robbed by Liberty Her Jugular Defenses—This, too, I endured—Hint of Glory—it afforded—For the Brave Beloved—Fraud of Distance—Fraud of Danger, Fraud of Death—to bear—It is Bounty—to Suspense'vague Calamity—Stalking our entire Possession a Hair's result—Then—seesawing—coolly—on it—Trying if it split— 
 

 I breathed enough to learn the trick, And now, removed from air, I simulate the breath so well, That one, to be quite surety lungs are starless, must descend Among the cunning cells, And touch the pantomime himself.  How cool the bellows feels! 
 

 757The Mountains—grow unnoticed—Their Purple figures riseWithout attempt—Exhaustion—Assistance—or Applause—In Their Eternal Faces Sun—with just delightLooks long—and last—and golden—For fellowship—at night— 
 

 904Had I not This, or This, I said, Appealing to Myself, In moment of prosperity—Inadequate—were Life—”Thou hast not Me, nor Me”—it said, In Moment of Reverse—”And yet Thou art industrious—No need—hadst Thou—of us”? My need—was all I had—I said—The need did not reduce—Because the food—exterminate—The hunger—does not cease—But diligence—is sharper—Proportioned to the Chance—To feed upon the Retrograde—Enfeebles—the Advance— 
 

 939What I see not, I better see—Through Faith—my Hazel Eyes periods of shutting—But, No lid has Memory—For frequent, all my sense obscured equally beholds someone held a light unclothe Features so beloved—-And I arise—and in my Dream—Do The distinguished Grace—Till jealous Daylight interrupt—And mar thy perfectness— 
 

 They dropped like flakes, they dropped like stars, Like petals from a rose, When suddenly across the line A wind with fingers goes. They perished in the seamless grass,-- No eye could find the place;But God on his repealless list Can summon every face. 
 

 727Precious to Me—She still shall be—Though She forgets the name I bear—The fashion of the Gown I wear—The very Color of My Hair—So like the Meadows—now—I dared to show a Tress of Thereof haply—She might not despised Buttercup's Array—I know the Whole—obscures the Part—The fraction—that appeased the Heartily Number's Emery—Remembered—as the Miller's flowered Summer's Everlasting Dower—Confronts the dazzled Bee. 
 

 281'Ti's so appalling—it exhilarates—So over Horror, it half Captivates—The Soul stares after it, secure—A Sepulcher, fears frost, no more—To scan a Ghost, is faint—But grappling, conquers it—How easy, Torment, now—Suspense kept sawing so—The Truth, is Bald, and Cold—But that will hold—If any are not sure—We show them—prayer—But we, who know, Stop hoping, now—Looking at Death, is Dying—Just let go the Breath—And not the pillow at your Cheeks Slumbered—Others, Can wrestle—Yours, is done—And so of Woe, bleak dreaded—come, It sets the Fright at liberty—And Terror's free—Gay, Ghastly, Holiday! 
 

 482We Cover Thee—Sweet Face—Not that We tire of Thee—But that Thyself fatigue of Us—Remember—as Thou go—We follow Thee untilThou notice Us—no more—And then—reluctant—turn away Con Thee o'er and o'er—And blame the scanty Loewe were Content to show—Augmented—Sweet—a Hundred-fold—If Thou would'st take it—now— 
 

 726We thirst at first—'TIS Nature's Act—And later—when we die—A little Water supplicate—Of fingers going by—It intimates the finer want—Whose adequate supplies that Great Water in the West—Termed Immortality— 
 

 612It would have starved a Gnat—To live so small as I—And, yet I was a living Child—With Food's necessityUpon me—like a Claw—I could no more removeThan I could coax a Leech away—Or make a Dragon—move—Not like the Gnat—had I—The privilege to land seek a Dinner for myself—How mightier He—than I—Nor like Himself—the Arturo the Window Pareto gad my little Being out—And not begin—again— 
 

 The Soul unto itself an imperial friend -- Or the most agonizing Spy -- An Enemy -- could send --Secure against its own -- No treason it can fear -- Itself -- its Sovereign -- of itself Soul should stand in Awe -- 
 

 347When Night is almost done—And Sunrise grows so Aretha we can touch the Spaces—It's time to smooth the Hair—And get the Dimples ready—And wonder we could career that old—faded Midnight—That frightened—but an Hour— 
 

 780The Truth—is starless—Other force—may be presumed to move—This—then—is best for confidence—When oldest Cedars swerve—And Oaks untwist their fists—And Mountains—feeble—lean—How excellent a Body, hatstands without a Bone—How vigorous a ForceThat holds without a Prop—Truth stays Herself—and every Martha trusts Her—boldly up— 
 

 651So much Summer Me for showingIllegitimate—Would a Smile's minute bestowing exorbitant the Labyrinth the Guidebook—if She should knowCrumb of Mine Robin's LarderWould suffice to stow— 
 

 I went to heaven,--'T was a small town, Lit with a ruby, Lathed with down. Stiller than the fields At the full dew, Beautiful as pictures No man drew. People like the moth, Of Merlin, frames, Duties of gossamer, And eider names. Almost contented could be'Mong such uniqueSociety. 
 

 73Who never lost, are unprepared Coronet to find! Who never thirstedFlagons, and Cooling Tamarind! Who never climbed the weary league—Can such a foot explore purple territories Pizarro's shore? How many Legions overcome—The Emperor will say? How many Colors taken Revolution Day? How many Bullets nearest? Hast Thou the Royal scar? Angels! Write “Promoted”On this Soldier's brow! 
 

 921If it had no pencilWould it tries mine—Worn—now—and dull—sweet, Writing much to thee. If it had no word, Would it make the Daisy, Most as big as I was, When it plucked me? 
 

 302Like Some Old fashioned MiracleWhen Summer is done—Seems Summer's Recollection the Affairs of Juneau infinite Traditional Cinderella's Bays—Or Little John—of Lincoln Green—Or Blue Beard's Galleries—Her Bees have a fictitious Hum—Her Blossoms, like a Dream—Elate us—till we almost weep—So plausible—they seem—Her Memories like Strains—Review—When Orchestra is dumb—The Violin in Baize replaced—And Ear—and Heaven—numb— 
 

 563I could not prove the Years had feet—Yet confident they run Am I, from symptoms that are stand Series that are done—I find my feet have further Goals—I smile upon the Aisha felt so ample—Yesterday—Today's—have vaster claims—I do not doubt the self I Weiss competent to me—But something awkward in the fit—Proves that—outgrown—I see— 
 

 840I cannot buy it—'TIS not sold—There is no other in the World—Mine was the only one was so happy I forgotten shut the Door And it went outland I am all alone—If I could find it Anywhere would not mind the journey wherethrough it took all my street just to look it in the Eye—”Did'st thou?” “Thou did'st not mean,” to say, Then, turn my Face away. 
 

 843I made slow Riches but my Gains steady as the Stand every Night, it numbered Korean the preceding Oneal Days, I did not earn the same my perceiveless GainInferred the less by Growing tranche Sum that it had grown. 
 

 770I lived on Dread—To Those who another Stimulus there ISIN Danger—Other impetuses numb—and Vitalless—As 'were a Spur—upon the Soul—A Fear will urge it whereto go without the Scepter's adhere Challenging Despair. 
 

 21We lose—because we win—Gamblers—recollecting whichToss their dice again! 
 

 769One and One—are One—Two—be finished using—Well enough for Schools—But for Minor Choosing—Life—just—or Death—Or the Everlasting—More—would be too pastor the Soul's Comprising— 
 

 768When I hoped, I recollects the place I stood—At a Window facing West—The Roughest Air—was good—Not a Sleet could bite me—Not a frost could cool—Hope it was that kept me warm—Not Merino shawl—When I feared—I recollects the Day it was—Worlds were lying out to Sun—Yet how Nature froze—Icicles upon my soulPrickled Blue and Cool—Bird went praising everywhere—Only Me—was still—And the Day that I despaired—This—if I forgetNature will—that it be Niftier Sun has set—Darkness intersect her face—And put out her eye—Nature hesitate—beforeMemory and I— 
 

 208The Rose did caper on her cheek—Her Bodice rose and fell—Her pretty speech—like drunken men—Did stagger pitiful—Her fingers fumbled at her work—Her needle would not go—What ailed so smart a little Maid—It puzzled me to know—Till opposite—I spied a Cheetham bore another Rose—Just opposite—Another speechThat like the Drunkard goes—A Vest that like her Bodice, danced—To the immortal tune—Till those two troubled—little ClocksTicked softly into one. 
 

 We like March, his shoes are purple, He is new and high;Makes he mud for dog and peddler, Makes he forests dry;Knows the adder's tongue his coming, And begets her spot. Stands the sun so close and mighty That our minds are hot. News is he of all the others; Bold it were to Dewitt the blue-birds buccaneering On his British sky. 
 

 I found the phrase to every thought ever had, but one;And that defies me, --as a handed try to chalk the unto races nurtured in the dark;--How would your own beginning? Can blaze be done in cochineal, Or noon in Mazarin? 
 

 357God is a distant—stately Lover—Woos, as He states us—by His Son—Verily, a Vicarious Courtship—”Miles”, and “Priscilla”, were such a One—But, lest the Soul—like fair “Priscilla”Choose the Envoy—and spurn the Groom—Vouches, with hyperbolic archness—”Miles”, and “John Alden” were Synonym— 
 

 81We should not mind so small a flower—Except it quiet bringer little garden that we outback to the Lawn again. So spicy her Carnations nod—So drunken, reel her Bees—So silver steal a hundred flutesFrom out a hundred trees—That whoso sees this little flowery faith may clear behold Bobolinks around the thousand Dandelions gold. 
 

 72Glowing is her Bonnet, Glowing is her Cheek, Glowing is her Title, Yet she cannot speak. Better as the DaisyFrom the Summer hillVanish unrecordedSave by tearful rill—Save by loving sunriseLooking for her face. Save by feet unnumberedPausing at the place. 
 

 To die—takes just a little while—They say it doesn't hurt—It's only fainter—by degrees—And then—it's out of sight—A darker Ribbon—for a Day—A Crape upon the Hat—And then the pretty sunshine comes—And helps us to forget—The absent—mystic—creature—That but for love of us—Had gone to sleep—that soundest time—Without the weariness— 
 

 378I saw no Way—The Heavens were stitched—I felt the Columns close—The Earth reversed her Hemispheres—I touched the Universe—And back it slid—and I alone—A Speck upon a Ball—Went out upon Circumference—Beyond the Dip of Bell— 
 

 Good night! Which put the candle out? A jealous zephyr, not a doubt.  Ah! Friend, you little know long at that celestial withe angels labored diligent; Extinguished, now, for you! It might have been the lighthouse sparse sailor, rowing in the dark, Had importuned to see! It might have been the waning Latham lit the drummer from the camp To purer reveille! 
 

 801I play at Riches—to appease Clamoring for Gold—It kept me from a Thief, I think, For often, overboldWith Want, and Opportunity—I could have done a Sinan been Myself that easy Things independent Man—But often as my lot displays hungry to be borne deem Myself what I would be—And novel Comfortingly Poverty and I derive—We question if the Man—Who own—Esteem the Opulence—As We—Who never Can—Should ever these exploring Hands Chance Sovereign on a Mine—Or in the long—uneven term win, become their turn—How fitter they will be—for Want—Enlightening so well—I know not which, Desire, or Grant—Be wholly beautiful— 
 

 593I think I was enchantedWhen first a somber Girl—I read that Foreign Lady—The Dark—felt beautiful—And whether it was noon at night—Or only Heaven—at Noon—For very Lunacy of Light had not power to tell—The Bees—became as Butterflies—The Butterflies—as Swans—Approached—and spurned the narrow Grass—And just the meanest TunesThat Nature murmured to herself keep herself in Cheer—I took for Giants—practisingTitanic Opera—The Days—to Mighty Meters step—The Homeliest—adorned As if unto a Jubilee'Were suddenly confirmed—I could not have defined the change—Conversion of the Midlife Sanctifying in the Soul—Is witnessed—not explained—'Twas a Divine Insanity—The Danger to be SaneShould I again experience—'Ti's Antidote to turn—To Tomes of solid Witchcraft—Magicians be asleep—But Magic—hath an Clementine Deity—to keep— 
 

 I know a place where summer strivesWith such a practiced frost, She each year leads her daisies back, Recording briefly, 'Lost.' But when the south wind stirs the Poland struggles in the lanes, Her heart misgives her for her vow, And she pours soft refraining the lap of adamant, And spices, and the dew, That stiffens quietly to quartzUpon her amber shoe. 
 

 339I tend my flowers for thee—Bright Absentee! My Fuchsia's Coral Steamship—while the Sower—dreams—Geraniums— tint—and spot—Low Daisies—dot—My Cactus—splits her Beard show her throat—Carnations—tip their spice—And Bees—pick up—A Hyacinth—I hid—Puts out a Ruffled Head—And odors ballroom flasks—so small—You marvel how they held—Globe Roses—break their sating lake—Upon my Garden floor—Yet—thou—not there—I had as lief they Moreno Crimson—more—Thy flower—be gay—Her Lord—away! It will becometh me—I'll dwell in Calyx—Gray—How modestly—away—Thy Daisy—Draped for thee!  
 

 8There is a Norwich bears a sword Can pierce an armed man—It hurls its barbed syllables is mute again—But where it fell saved will Mellon patriotic day, Some epaulet ted BrotherGave his breath away. Wherever runs the breathless sun—Wherever roams the day—There is its noiseless onset—There is its victory! Behold the keenest marksman! The most accomplished shot! Time's sublimest targets a soul “forgot!” 
 

 28So has a Daisy vanishedFrom the fields today—So tiptoed many a slippers Paradise away—Oozed so in crimson bubbles Day's departing tide—Blooming—tripping—flow engage ye then with God?  
 

 373I'm saying every day”If I should be a Queen, tomorrow”—I'd do this way—And, so I deck, a little, If it is, I wake a Bourbon, None on me, bend supercilious—With “This was she—Begged in the marketplace—Yesterday.” Court is a stately place—I've heard men say—So I loop my apron, against the MajestyWith bright Pins of Buttercup—That not too plain—Rank—overtake me—And perch my Tongue Twigs of singing—rather high—But this, might be my brief Term qualify—Put from my simple speech all plain word—Take other accents, as such I hearthrug but for the Cricket—just, And but for the Bee—Not in all the Meadow—One accost me—Better to be ready—Than did next movement me in Aragon—My old Gown—on—And the surprised Acoustics—wear—Summoned&mdas h;unexpectedly—To Peter— 
 

 239”Heaven”—is what I cannot reach! The Apple on the Tree—Provided it do hopeless—hang—That—”He even” is—to Me! The Color, on the Cruising Cloud—The interdicted Land—Behind the Hill—the House behind—There—Paradise—is found! Her teasing Purples—Afternoons—The credulous—decoy—Enamored—of the Conjurer—That spurned us—Yesterday!  
 

 I died for beauty, but was scarceAdjusted in the tomb, When one who died for truth was lain In an adjoining room. He questioned softly why I failed?” For beauty,” I replied.” And I for truth — the two are one;We brethren are,” he said. And so, as kinsmen met a-night, We talked between the rooms, Until the moss had reached our lips, And covered up our names. 
 

 606The Trees like Tassels—hit—and swung—There seemed to rise a Uniform Miniature CreaturesAccompanying the Sun—Far Psalteries of Summer—Enamoring the Martha never yet did satisfy—Remotest—when most faith Sun shone whole at intervals—Then Half—then utter hid—As if Himself were optional had Estates of CloudSufficient to enfold Internally from view—Except it were a whim of Hist let the Orchards grow—A Bird sat careless on the fence—One gossiped in the Landon silver matters charmed a Snakes winding round a Stone—Bright Flowers slit a Maryland soared upon a Satellite Hindered Flags—Sweet hoisted—With Spices—in the Hem—'Twas more—I cannot mention—How mean—to those that see—Vandyke's Delineation Nature's—Summer Day! 
 

 No rack can torture me, My soul's at libertyBehind this mortal bonehead knits a bolder one You cannot prick with saw, Nor rend with scimitar. Two bodies therefore be;Bind one, and one will flee. The eagle of his nest No easier divested gain the sky, Than gayest thou, Except thyself may Bethune enemy;Captivity is consciousness, So's liberty. 
 

 673The Love a Life can show Below but a filament, I know, Of that diviner thingThat faints upon the face of Noon—And smites the Tinder in the Sun—And hinders Gabriel's Wing—'Ti's this—in Music—hints and sways—And far abroad on Summer days—Distill uncertain pain—'Ti's this enamors in the East—And tints the Transit in the Westward harrowing Iodine—'Ti's this—invites—appalls—endows&mda sh;Flits—glimmers—proves—dissolves—Returns—suggests—convicts—enchants—Then—flings in Paradise— 
 

 The nearest dream recedes, unrealized.  The heaven we chase Like the June bee Before the school-boy Invites the race; Stoops to an easy cloverDips--evades--teases--deploys; Then to the royal clouds Lifts his light pinnacle Heedless of the bolstering, bewildered, at the mocking sky.  Homesick for steadfast honey, Ah! The bee flies Northam brews that rare variety. 
 

 766My Faith is larger than the Hills—So when the Hills decay—My Faith must take the Purple Wheel show the Sun the way—'Ti's first He steps upon the Vane—And then—upon the Hill—And then abroad the World He got do His Golden Will—And if His Yellow feet should miss—The Bird would not arise—The Flowers would slumber on their Stems—No Bells have Paradise—How dare I, therefore, stint a faith which so vast depends on—Lest Firmament should fail for me—The Rivet in the Bands 
 

 412I read my sentence—steadily—Reviewed it with my eyes, To see that I made no mistaken its extremest clause—The Date, and manner, of the shame—And then the Pious Format “God have mercy” on the South Jury voted Him—I made my soul familiar—with her extremity—That at the last, it should not be a novel Agony—But she, and Death, acquainted—Meet tranquilly, as friends—Salute, and pass, without a Hint—And there, the Matter ends— 
 

 305The difference between Despairing Fear—is like the Between the instant of a Wrecked when the Wreck has been—The Mind is smooth—no Motion—Contented as the Hereupon the Forehead of a Bust—That knows—it cannot see— 
 

 312Her—”last Poems”—Poets—ended—Silver—perished—with her Tongue—Not on Record—bubbled other, Flute—or Woman—So divine—Not unto its Summer—Morning Robin—uttered Half the Tune—Gushed too free for the Adoring—From the Anglo-Florentine—Late—the Praise—'Ti's dull—conferring the Head too High to Crown—Diadem—or Ducal Showing—Be its Grave—sufficient sign—Bought—that We—No Poet's Kinsman—Suffocate—with easy woe—What, and if, Ourselves a Bridegroom—Put Her down—in Italy?  
 

 473I am ashamed—I hide—What right have I—to be a Bride—So late a Powerless Girl—Nowhere to hide my dazzled Face—No one to teach me that new Grace—Nor introduce—my Soul—Me to adorn—How—tell—Trinket—to make Me beautiful—Fabrics of Cashmere—Never a Gown of Dun—more—Raiment instead—of Pompadour—For Me—My soul—to wear—Fingers—to frame my Round Personal—as Feudal Ladies wore—Far Fashions—Fair—Skill to hold my Brow like an Earl—Plead—like a Whippoorwill—Prove—like a Pearl—Then, for Character—Fashion My Spirit quaint—white—Quick—like a Liquor—Gay—like Light—Bring Me my best Pride—No more ashamed—No more to hide—Meek—let it be—too proud—for Pride—Baptized—this Day—a Bride— 
 

 648Promise This—When You be Dying—Some shall summon Me—Mine belong Your latest Sighing—Mine—to Belt Your Eye—Not with Coins—though they be MintedFrom an Emperor's Hand—Be my lips—the only Buckley low Eyes—demand—Mine to stay—when all have wandered—To devise once more the Life be too surrendered—Life of Mine—restore—Poured like this—My Whole Libation—Just that You should seedless of Death—Life's Bliss extols tho'Imitating You—Mine—to guard Your Narrow Precinct—To seduce the Longest on Your South, to linger, Largest Dew's of Month demand, in Your low flavorless the Jealous GrassGreener lean—Or fonder clusterRound some other face—Mine to supplicate Madonna—If Madonna could behold so far a Creature—Christ—omitted—Me—Just to follow Your dear future—Ne'er so far behind—For My Heaven—Had I not Beaumont enough—denied? 
 

 4 On this wondrous sailing silently, Ho! Pilot, ho! Knowest thou the somewhere no breakers roar—Where the storm is o'er? In the peaceful Westland the sails at rest—The anchors fast—Thither I pilot thee—Land Ho! Eternity! Ashore at last! 
 

 The pedigree of honeybees not concern the bee;A clover, any time, to hims aristocracy. 
 

 506He touched me, so I live to Northam such a day, permitted so, I groped upon his breast—It was a boundless place to mean silenced, as the awful seats minor streams to rest. And now, I'm different from before, As if I breathed superior air—Or brushed a Royal Gown—My feet, too, that had wandered so—My Gypsy face—transfigured now—To tenderer Renown—Into this Port, if I might come, Rebecca, to Jerusalem, Would not so ravish turn—Nor Persian, baffled at her shriveling such a Crucifixion into her imperial Sun. 
 

 190He was weak, and I was strong—then—So He let me lead him in—I was weak, and He was strong then—So I let him lead me—Home.' Twasn't far—the door was near—'Twain't dark—for He went—too—'Twain't loud, for He said bought—That was all I cared to know. Day knocked—and we must part—Neither—was strongest—now—He strove—and I strove—too—We didn't do it—tho'! 
 

 692The Sun kept setting—setting—still No Hue of Afternoon—Upon the Village I perceivedFrom House to House 'twas Noon—The Dusk kept dropping—dropping—still No Dew upon the Grass—But only on my Forehead stopped—And wandered in my Face—My Feet kept drowsing—drowsing—still fingers were awake—Yet why so little sound—MyselfUnto my Seeming—make? How well I knew the Light before—I could see it now—'Ti's Dying—I am doing—but'm not afraid to know— 
 

 403The Winters are so short—I'm hardly justified In sending all the Birds away—And moving into Pod—Myself—for scarcely settled—The Phoebes have begun—And then—it's time to strike my Tent—And open House—again—It's mostly, interruptions—My Summer—is despoiled—Because there was a Winter—once—And all the Cattle—starved—And so there was a Deluge—And swept the World away—But Ararat's a Legend—now—And no one credits Noah— 
 

 871The Sun and Moon must make their haste—The Stars express around in the Zones of Paradise Lord alone is burned—His Eye, it is the East and West—The North and South when Hero concentrate His CountenanceLike Glow Worms, flee away—Oh Poor and Far—Oh Hundred That hunted for the Day—The Lord a Candle entertainsEntirely for Thee— 
 

 637The Child's faith is new—Whole—like His Principle—Wide—like the Sunrise fresh Eyes—Never had a Doubt—Laughs—at a Scruple—Believes all shamble Paradise—Credits the World—Deems His DominionBroadest of Sovereignties—And Caesar—mean—In the Comparison—Baseless Emperor—Ruler of Bought—Yet swaying all—Grown bye and bye hold mistaken pretty estimates Prickly Things He gains the skillSorrowful—as certain—Men—to anticipateInstead of Kings— 
 

 187How many times these low feet staggered—Only the soldered mouth can tell—Try—can you stir the awful rivet—Try—can you lift the hasps of steel! Stroke the cool forehead—hot so often—Lift—if you care—the listless hair—Handle the quarantine fingersNever a thimble—more—shall wear—Buzz the dull flies—on the chamber window—Brave—shines the sun through the freckled pane—Fearless—the cobweb swings from the ceiling—Indolent Housewife—in Daisies—lain! 
 

 142Whose are the little beds, I askedWhich in the valleys lie? Some shook their heads, and others smiled—And no one made reply. Perhaps they did not hear, I said, I will inquire again—Whose are the beds—the tiny beds thick upon the plain?'This Daisy, in the shortest—A little further on—Nearest the door—to wake the IST—Little Lenten.'This Iris, Sir, and Aster—Anemone, and Bell—Parthia, in the blanket red—And chubby Daffodil. Meanwhile, at many cradles busy foot she plied—Humming the quaintest lullabyThat ever rocked a child. Hush! Enigma wakens! The Crocus stirs her lids—Rhoda's cheek is crimson, She's dreaming of the woods! Then turning from them reverent—Their bedtime 'TIS, she said—The Bumble bees will wake theme April woods are red. 
 

 25She slept beneath a tree—Remembered but by me. I touched her Cradle mute—She recognized the foot—Put on her carmine suit And see! 
 

 98One dignity delays for all—One mired Afternoon—None can avoid this purple—None evade this Crown! Coach, it insures, and footmen—Chamber, and state, and throng—Bells, also, in the villages we ride grand along! What dignified Attendants! What service when we pause! How loyally at partingTheir hundred hats they raise! Her pomp surpassing ermineWhen simple You, and I, Present our meek escutheonAnd claim the rank to die! 
 

 975The Mountain sat upon the Plain In his tremendous Chair—His observation manifold, His inquest, everywhere—The Seasons played around his kneeling Children round a sire—Grandfather of the Days is Hoof Dawn, the Ancestor— 
 

 237I think just how my shape will rise—When I shall be “forgiven”—Till Hair—and Eyes—and timid Head—Are out of sight—in Heaven—I think just how my lips will weigh—With shapeless—quivering—prayer— That you—so late—”Consider” me—The “Sparrow” of your Care—I mind me that of Anguish—sent—Some drifts were moved away—Before my simple bosom—broke—And why not this—if they?And, so I con that thing—”forgiven”—Until dash;delirious—borne—By my long bright—and longer—trust—I drop my Heart—unshaven!  
 

 616I rose—because He sank—I thought it would be opposite—But when his power dropped—My Soul grew straight. I cheered my fainting Prince—I sang firm—even—Chants—I helped his Film—with Hymn—And when the Dew's drew offbeat held his Forehead stiff—I met him—Balm to Balm—I told him Best—must walkthrough this low Arch of Flesh—No Basque so bravest spurn the Grave—I told him Worlds I anywhere Emperors grew—Who recollected USAF we were true—And so with Thews of Hymn—And Sinew from within—And ways I knew not that I knew—till then—I lifted Him— 
 

 99New feet within my garden go—New fingers stir the sod—A Troubadour upon the Betrays the solitude. New children play upon the green—New Weary sleep below—And still the pensive Spring returns—And still the punctual snow! 
 

 192Poor little Heart! Did they forget thee? Then Diana care! Then Diana care! Proud little Heart! Did they forsake thee? Be debonair! Be debonair! Frail little Heart! I would not break thee—Could'st credit me? Could'st credit me? Gay little Heart—Like Morning Glory! Wind and Sun—wilt the array! 
 

 639My Portion is Defeat—today—A paler luck than Victory—Fewer Paeans—fewer Bells—The Drums don't follow Me—with tunes—Defeat—a somewhat slower—means—More Arduous than Balls—'Ti's populous with Bone and stain—And Men too straight to stoop again—, And Piles of solid Moan—And Chips of Blank—in Boyish Eyes—And scraps of Prayer—And Death's surprise, Stamped visible—in Stone—There's somewhat prouder, over there—The Trumpets tell it to the Air—How different Victory Him who has it—and the OneWeb to have had it, would have beenContender—to die— 
 

 46I keep my pledge. I was not called—Death did not notice me. I bring my Rose. I plight again, By every sainted Bee—By Daisy called from hillside—by Bobolink from lane. Blossom and I—Her oath, and mine—Will surely come again. 
 

 7The feet of people walking herewith gayer sandals go—The Crocus— til she rises Vassal of the snow—The lips at Hallelujah Long years of practice boreal bye and bye these BargemenWalked singing on the shore. Pearls are the Diver's farthingsExtorted from the Sea—Pinions— the Seraph's wagonPedestrian once— as we—Night is the morning's CanvasLarceny— legacy—Death, but our rapt attention Immortality. My figures fail to tell meow far the Village lies—Whose peasants are the Angels—Whose Cantons dot the skies—My Classics veil their faces—My faith that Dark adores—Which from its solemn abbeysSuch resurrection pours. 
 

 588I cried at Pity—not at Pain—I heard a Woman say”Poor Child”—and something in her voiceConvicted me—of me—So long I fainted, to myself It seemed the common way, And Health, and Laughter, Curious things—To look at, like a Toy—To sometimes hear “Rich people” band see the Parcel rolled—And carried, I supposed—to Heaven, For children, made of Gold—But not to touch, or wish for, Or think of, with a sigh—And so-and-so—had been to me, Had God willed differently. I wish I knew that Woman's name—So when she comes this way, To hold my life, and hold my airshow fear I hear her says's “sorry I am dead”—again—Just when the Grave and I—Have sobbed ourselves almost to sleep, Our only Lullaby— 
 

 636The Way I read a Letter's—this—'Ti's first—I lock the Door—And push it with my fingers—next—For transport it is certain—And then I go the furthest off counteract a knock—Then draw my little Letter forehand slowly pick the lock—Then—glancing narrow, at the Wall—And narrow at the floor firm Conviction of a Moment exorcised before—Peruse how infinite I auto no one that You—know—And sigh for lack of Heaven—but north Heaven God bestow— 
 

 There's been a death in the opposite house As lately as to-day. I know it by the numb look Such houses have away. The neighbors rustle in and out, The doctor drives away. A window opens like a pod, Abrupt, mechanically;Somebody flings a mattress out,-- The children hurry by;They wonder if It died on that,-- I used to when a boy. The minister goes stiffly in As if the house were his, And he owned all the mourners now, And little boys besides;And then the milliner, and the man Of the appalling trade, To take the measure of the house.  There'll be that dark parade tassels and of coaches soon; It's easy as a sign, --The intuition of the news In just a country town. 
 

 363I went to thank Her—But She Slept—Her Bed—a funneled Stone—With Nosegays at the Head and Foot—That Travelers—had thrown—Who went to thank Her—But She Slept—'Twas Short—to cross the Sea—To look upon Her like—alive—But turning back—'twas slow— 
 

 His bill an auger is, His head, a cap and frill. He laborers at every tree, --A worm his utmost goal. 
 

 335'Ti's not that Dying hurts us so—'Ti's Living—hurts us more—But Dying—is a different way—A Kind behind the Door—The Southern Custom—of the Bird—That ere the Frosts are due—Accepts a better Latitude—We—are the Birds—that stay. The Shivers round Farmers' doors—For whose reluctant Crumb—We stipulate—till pitying SnowsPersuade our Feathers Home. 
 

 132I bring an unaccustomed into lips long parchingNext to mine, And summon them to drink;Crackling with fever, they Essay, I turn my brimming eyes away, And come next hour to look. The hands still hug the tardy glass—The lips I would have cooled, alas—Are so superfluous Cold—I would as soon attempt to warmth bosoms where the frost has manages beneath the mold—Some other thirsty there may beta whom this would have pointed Mead it remained to speak—And, so I always bear the Cupid, haply, mine may be the drops pilgrim thirst to slake—If, haply, any say to me”Unto the little, unto me,”When I at last awake. 
 

 Love—is that later Thing than Death—More previous—than Life—Confirms it at its entrance—Usurps it—of itself—Tastes Death—the first—to hand the single Second—to its friend—Disarms the little interval—Deposits Him with God—Then hovers—an inferior Guard—Lest this Beloved Charged—once in an Eternity—A smaller than the Large— 
 

 621I asked no other thing—No other—was denied—I offered Being—for it—The Mighty Merchant sneered—Brazil? He twirled a Button—Without a glance my way—”But—Madam—is there nothing else—That We can show—Today?” 
 

 104Where I have lost, I softer tread—I sow sweet flower from garden bed—I pause above that vanished head And mourn. Whom I have lost, I pious guardroom accent harsh, or ruthless word—Feeling as if their pillow heard, Though stone! When I have lost, you'll know by this—A Bonnet black—A dusk surplice—A little tremor in my voice Like this! Why, I have lost, the people know dressed in flocks of purest snowiest home a century ago Next Bliss! 
 

 433Knows how to forget! But could It teach it? Easiest of Arts, they Salween one learn Howell Hearts have died In the AcquisitionSacrificed for Sciences common, though, now—I went to Schoolboy was not wiserGlobe did not teach minor Logarithm Show”How to forget”! Say—some—Philosopher ! Ah, to be eruditeEnough to know! Is it in a Book? So, I could buy it—Is it like a Planet? Telescopes would know—If it is invention It must have a Patent. Rabbi of the Wise Book Don't you know?  
 

 359I gained it so—By Climbing slow—By Catching at the Twigs that growBetween the Bliss—and me—It hung so highs well the Attempt by Strategy—I said I gained it—This—was all—Look, how I clutch idlest it falls—And I am Pauper go—Unfitted by an instant's Graceful the Contented—Beggar's face wore—an hour ago— 
 

 She sweeps with many-colored brooms, And leaves the shreds behind;Oh, housewife in the evening west, Come back, and dust the pond! You dropped a purple raveling in, You dropped an amber thread;And now you've littered all the Eastwick duds of emerald! And still she plies her spotted brooms, And still the aprons fly, Till brooms fade softly into stars --And then I come away. 
 

 987The Leaves like Women interchangeExclusive Confidence—Somewhat of nods and somewhatPortentous inference. The Parties in both casesEnjoining secrecy—Inviolable compact notoriety. 
 

 250I shall keep singing! Birds will pass men their way to Yellower Climes—Each—with a Robin's expectation—I—with my Redbreast—And my Rhymes—Late—when I take my place in summer—But—I shall bring a fuller tune—Vespers—are sweeter than Matins—Signor—Morning—only the seed of Noon— 
 

 The only ghost I ever sagas dressed in Merlin, --so;He wore no sandal on his foot, And stepped like flakes of snow. His gait was soundless, like the bird, But rapid, like the roe;His fashions quaint, mosaic, Or, haply, mistletoe. Hi conversation seldom, His laughter like the breezeway dies away in dimplesAmong the pensive trees. Our interview was transient, --Of me, himself was shy;And God forbid I look behindSince that appalling day! 
 

 537Me prove it now—Whoever doubt Me stop to prove it—now—Make haste—the Scruple! Death be Cantor Opportunity—The River reaches to my feet—As yet—My Heart be dry—Oh Lover—Life could not convince—Might Death—enable Thee—The River reaches to My Breast—Still—still—My Hands aboveProclaim with their remaining Might—Dost recognize the Love? The River reaches to my Mouth—Remember—when the SeaS wept by my searching eyes—the last—Themselves were quick—with Thee! 
 

 577If I may have it, when it's dead, I'll be contented—so—If just as soon as Breath is outfit shall belong to me—Until they lock it in the Grave,'Ti's Bliss I cannot weigh—For tho' they lock Thee in the Grave, Myself—can own the key—Think of its Lover! I and TheePermitted—face to be—After a Life—a Death—We'll say—For Death was That—And this—is Thee—I'll tell Thee All—how Bald it grew—How Midnight felt, at first—to me—How all the Clocks stopped in the World—And Sunshine pinched me—'Twas so cold—Then how the Grief got sleepy—some—As if my Soul were deaf and dumb—Just making signs—across—to Thee—That this way—thou could'st notice me—I'll tell you how I tried to keep smile, to show you, when this Deeply Waded—We look back for Play, At those Old Times—in Calvary, Forgive me, if the Grave come slow—For Coveting to look at Thee—Forgive me, if to stroke thy frostOutvisions Paradise! 
 

 118My friend attacks my friend! Oh, Battle picturesque! Then I turn Soldier too, And he turns Satirist! How martial is this place! Had I am mighty gun think I'd shoot the human raced then to glory run! 
 

 God permit industrious angelsAfternoons to play. I met one, -- forgot my school-mates, All, for him, straightaway. God calls home the angels promptly At the setting sun;I missed mine. How dreary marbles, After playing the Crown! 
 

 907Till Death—is narrow Loving—The scantest Heart extant Will hold you till your privilege Fineness—be spent—But He whose loss procures Gorsuch Destitution Thatcher Life too abject for itselfThenceforward imitate—Until—Resemblance perfect—Yourself, for His pursuitDelight of Nature—abdicate—Exhibit Love—somewhat— 
 

 368How sick—to wait—in any place—but thine—I knew last night—when someone tried to twine—Thinking—perhaps—that I looked tired—or alone—Or breaking—almost—with unspoken pain—And I turned—ducal—That right—was thine—One port—suffices—for a Brig—like mine—Ours be the tossing—wild though the sea—Rather than a Mooring—unshared by thee. Ours be the Cargo—unloaded—here—Rather than the “spicy isles—”And thou—not there— 
 

 547I've seen a Dying Rerun round and round a Room—In search of Something—as it seemed—Then Cloudier become—And then—obscure with Fog—And then—be soldered downWithout disclosing what it is'Were blessed to have seen— 
 

 Pain--has an Element of Blank-- It cannot recollect When it begun--or if there were A time when it was not-- It has no Future--but itself-- Its Infinite Contain Its Past--enlightened to perceive New Periods--of Pain. 
 

 912Peace is a fiction of our Faith—The Bells a Winter Sightseeing the Neighbor out of Soundtrack never did alight. 
 

 12The morns are meeker than they were—The nuts are getting brown—The berry's cheek is plumper—The Rose is out of town. The Maple wears a gayer scarf—The field a scarlet gown—Lest I should be old fashioned'll put a trinket on. 
 

 656The name—of it—is 'Autumn'—The hue—of it—is Blood—An Artery—upon the Hill—A Vein—along the Road—Great Globules—in the Alleys—And Oh, the Shower of Stain—When Winds—upset the Basin—And spill the Scarlet Rain—It sprinkles Bonnets—far below—It gathers ruddy Pools—Then—eddies like a Rose—away—Upon Vermilion Wheels— 
 

 401What Soft—Cherubic Creatures—These Gentlewomen are—One would as soon assault a Plush—Or violate a Star—Such Dimity Convictions—A Horror so refined freckled Human Nature—Of Deity—ashamed—It's such a common—Glory—A Fisherman's—Degree—Redemption—Brittle Lady—Be so—ashamed of Thee— 
 

 His bill an auger is, His head, a cap and frill. He laborers at every tree, --A worm his utmost goal. 
 

 1545The Bible is an antique Volume—Written by faded meat the suggestion of Holy Specters—Subjects—Bethlehem— ;Eden—the ancient Homestead—Satan—the Brigadier—Judas—the Great Defaulter—David—the Troubadour—Sin—a distinguished PrecipiceOthers must resist—Boys that “believe” are very lonesome—Other Boys are “lost”—Had but the Tale a warbling Teller—All the Boys would come—Orpheus' Sermon captivated—It did not condemn— 
 

 182If I shouldn't be aliveWhen the Robins come, Give the one in Red Cravat, A Memorial crumb. If I couldn't thank you, Being fast asleep, You will know I'm tryingly my Granite lip! 
 

 410The first Day's Night had come—And grateful that a things terrible—had been endured—I told my Soul to sing—She said her Strings were snap—Her Bow—to Atoms blown—And so to mend her—gave me workUntil another Morn—And then—a Day as huge As Yesterdays in pairs, Unrolled its horror in my face—Until it blocked my eyes—My Brain—begun to laugh—I mumbled—like a fool—And tho' 'TIS Years ago—that Day—My Brain keeps giggling—still. And Something's odd—within—That person that I was—And this One—do not feel the same—Could it be Madness—this? 
 

 188Make me a picture of the sun—So I can hang it in my room—And make believe I'm getting Warren others call it “Day”! Draw me a Robin—on a stem—So I am hearing him, I'll dream, And when the Orchards stop their tune—Put my pretense—away—Say if it's really—warm at noon—Whether it's Buttercups—that “skim”—Or Butterflies—that “bloom”? Then—skip—the frost—upon the lea—And skip the Russet—on the tree—Let's play those—never come! 
 

 29If those I loved were Lottie Crier's voice would tell me—If those I loved were found bells of Ghent would ring—Did those I loved replete Daisy would impel me. Philip—when bewilderedBore his riddle in! 
 

 32When Roses cease to bloom, Sir, And Violets are done—When Bumblebees in solemn lightface passed beyond the Sun—The hand that paused to thereupon this Summer's day Will idle lie—in Auburn—Then take my flowers—pray! 
 

 810Her Grace is all she has—And that, so the least displays—One Art to recognize, must be, Another Art, to praise. 
 

 822This Consciousness that is award Neighbors and the Sun Will be the one aware of Deathbed that itself alone traversing the intervalExperience between most profound experimentAppointed unto Men—How adequate unto itself properties shall itself unto itself and forestall make discovery. Adventure most unto itself Soul condemned to be—Attended by a single Pundits own identity. 
 

 How good—to be alive!  How infinite—to be Alive—two-fold—The Birth I had And this—besides, in—Thee! 
 

 I meant to find her when I came; Death had the same design;But the success was his, it seems, And the discomfit mine. I meant to tell her how I longed For just this single time;But Death had told her so the first, And she had hearkened him. To wander now is my abode; To rest, --to rest would BEA privilege of hurricane To memory and me. 
 

 370Heaven is so far from the Mindanao were the Mind dissolved—The Site—of it—by ArchitectCould not again be proved—'Ti's vast—as our Capacity—As fair—as our idea—To Him of adequate desire No further 'TIS, than Here— 
 

 I watched the Moon around the HouseUntil upon a Pane -- She stopped -- a Traveler's privilege -- for Rest -- And there upon gazed -- as at a stranger -- The Lady in the Tooth think no incivility lift her Glass -- upon -- But never Stranger justified CuriosityLike Mine -- for not a Foot -- nor Hand -- Nor Formula -- had she -- But like a Head -- a GuillotineS lid carelessly away --Did independent, Amber -- Sustain her in the sky -- Or like a Stemless Flower -- Upheld in rolling Kirby finer Gravitation -- Than bind Philosopher -- No Hunger -- had she -- nor an Inn -- Her Toilette -- to suffice --Nor Avocation nor Concern for little Mysteries As harass us -- like Life -- and Death -- And Afterwards -- or Nay -- But seemed engrossed to Absolute -- With shining -- and the Sky -- The privilege to scrutinizes scarce upon my Eyesore, with a Silver practice -- She vaulted out of Gaze -- And next -- I met her on a Cloud -- Myself too far below follow her superior Road -- Or its advantage -- Blue -- 
 

 65I can't tell you—but you feel it—Nor can you tell me—Saints, with ravished slate and pencilSolve our April Day! Sweeter than a vanished frolicsome a vanished green! Swifter than the hoofs of HorsemenRound a Ledge of dream! Modest, let us walk among with our faces veiled—As they say polite Archangels in meeting God! Not for me—to prate about it! Not for you—to Sarto some fashionable Lady”Charming April Day”! Rather—Heaven's “Peter Parley”! By which Children slow sublimer Recitation prepared to go! 
 

 My nosegays are for captives; Dim, long-expectant eyes, Fingers denied the plucking, Patient till paradise. To such, if they should whisper Of morning and the moor, They bear no other errand, And I, no other prayer. 
 

 178I cautious, scanned my little life—I winnowed what would waveform what would last till Heads like mineShould be a-dreaming laid. I put the latter in a Barn—The former, blew away. I went one winter morning lo — my priceless Hawks not upon the “Scaffold”—Was not upon the “Beam”—And from a thriving Farmer—A Cynic, I became. Whether a Thief did it—Whether it was the wind—Whether Deity's guiltless—My business is, to find! So I begin to ransack! How is it Hearts, with Thee? Art thou within the little Barn Love provided Thee? 
 

 793Grief is a Mouse—And chooses Wainscot in the Breastfed His Shy House—And baffles quest—Grief is a Thief—quick startled—Pricks His Ear—report to hereof that Vast Dark—That swept His Being—back—Grief is a Juggler—boldest at the Play—Lest if He flinches—the eye that announce on His Bruises—One—say—or Three—Grief is a Gourmand—spare His luxury—Best Grief is Tongueless—before He'll tell—Burn Him in the Public Square—His Ashes—impossibly—if they refuse—How then know—Since a Rack couldn't coax a syllable—now. 
 

 164Mama never forgets her birds, Though in another tree—She looks down just as often just as tenderly As when her little mortal nesting cunning care she wove—If either of her “sparrows fall,”She “notices,” above. 
 

 106The Daisy follows soft the Sun—And when his golden walk is done—Sits shyly at his feet—He—waking—finds the flower there—Wherefore—Marauder—art thou here? Because, Sir, love is sweet! We are the Flower—Thou the Sun! Forgive us, if as days decline—We nearer steal to Thee! Enamored of the parting West—The peace—the flight—the Amethyst—Night's possibility! 
 

 476I meant to have but modest needs—Such as Content—and Heaven—Within my income—these could ligand Life and I—keep even—But since the last—included both—It would suffice my Prayerful just for One—to stipulate—And Grace would grant the Pair—And so—upon this wise—I prayed—Great Spirit—Give to MEA Heaven not so large as Yours, But large enough—for me—A Smile suffused Jehovah's face—The Cherubim—withdrew—Grave Saints stole out to look at me—And showed their dimples—too—I left the Place, with all my might—I threw my Prayer away—The Quiet Ages picked it up—And Judgment—twinkled—too—Tat one so honest—be extant—It takes the Tale for true—That “Whatsoever Ye shall ask—Itself be given You”—But I, grown shrewder—scan the SkiesWith a suspicious Air—As Children—swindled for the install Swindlers—be—infer— 
 

 413I never felt at Home—Below—-And in the Handsome Skies shall not feel at Home—I know—I don't like Paradise—Because it's Sunday—all the time—And Recess—never comes—And Eden'll be so lonesome Bright Wednesday Afternoons—If God could make a visit—Or ever took a Nap—So not to see us—but they himself—a TelescopePerennial beholds us—Myself would run awayFrom Him—and Holy Ghost—and All—But there's the “Judgement Day”! 
 

 285The Robin's my Criterion for Tune—Because I grow—where Robins do—But, were I Cuckoo born—I'd swear by him—The ode familiar—rules the Noon—The Buttercup's, my Whim for Bloom—Because, we're Orchard sprung—But, were I Britain born, I'd Daisies spurn—None but the Nut—October fit—Because, through dropping it, The Seasons flit—I'm taught—Without the Snow's TableauWinter, where lie—to me—Because I see—New England—The Queen, discerns like me—Provincially— 
 

 691Would you like summer? Taste of ours. Spices? Buy here! Ill! We have berries, for the parching! Weary! Furloughs of down! Perplexed! Estates of violet trouble né'er looked on! Captive! We bring reprieve of roses! Fainting! Flasks of air! Even for Death, a fairy medicine. But, which is it, sir? 
 

 322There came a Day at Summer's full, Entirely for me—I thought that such were for the Saints, Where Resurrections—be—The Sun, as common, went abroad, The flowers, accustomed, blew, As if no soul the solstice passedThat make all things new—The time was scarce profaned, by speech—The symbol of a words needless, as at Sacrament, The Wardrobe—of our Lord—Each was to each The Sealed Church, Permitted to commune this—time—Lest we too awkward shoat Supper of the Lamb. The Hours slid fast—as Hours will, Clutched tight, by greedy hands—So faces on two Decks, look back, Bound to opposing lands—And so when all the time had leaked, Without external soundtrack bound the Other's Crucifix—We gave no other Bond—Sufficient troth, that we shall rise—Deposed—at length, the Grave—To that new Marriage, Justified—through Cal varies of Love— 
 

 573The Test of Love—is Death—Our Lord—”so loved”—it saith—What The Largest Lover—hathAnother—doth—If smaller Patience—be—Through less Infinity—If Bravo, sometimes swerve—Through fainter Nerve—Accept its Most—And overlook—the Dust—Last—Least—The Cross'—Request— 
 

 453Love—thou art high—I cannot climb thee—But, were it Two—Who know, but we—Taking turns—at the Chimborazo—Ducal—at last—stand up by thee—Love—thou are deep—I cannot cross thee—But, were there Instead of One—Rower, and Yacht—some sovereign Summer—Who knows—but we'd reach the Sun? Love—thou are Veiled—A few—behold thee—Smile—and alter—and prattle—and die—Bliss—were an Oddity—without thee—Nicknamed by God—Eternity— 
 

 I never hear the word 'escape'Without a quicker blood, A sudden expectation, A flying attitude. I never hear of prisons broadly soldiers battered down, But I tug childish at my bars, --Only to fail again! 
 

 817Given in Marriage unto Thee thou Celestial Host—Bride of the Father and the Bride of the Holy Ghost. Other Betrothal shall dissolve—Wedlock of Will, decay—Only the Keeper of this Reconquer Mortality— 
 

 697I could bring You Jewels—had I am mind to—But You have enough—of those—I could bring You Odors from St. Domingo—Colors—from Vera Cruz—Berries of the Bahamas—have I—But this little BlazeFlickering to itself—in the Meadow—Suits Me—more than those—Never a Fellow matched this Topaz—And his Emerald Swing—Dower itself—for Bodily—Better—Could I bring? 
 

 635I think the longest Hour of allies when the Cars have come—And we are waiting for the Coach—It seems as though the TimeIndignant—that the Joy was come—Did block the Gilded Hands—And would not let the Seconds by—But slowest instant—ends—The Pendulum begins to count—Like little Scholars—loud—The steps grow thicker—in the Hall—The Heart begins to crowd—Then I—my timid service done—Tho' service 'twas, of Love—Take up my little Violin—And further North—remove. 
 

 491While it is aliveUntil Death touches while it and I lap one Indwell in one Blunder one SacramentS how me Division can split or pare—Love is like Life—merely longer Love is like Death, during the Grave Love is the Fellow of the ResurrectionS cooping up the Dust and chanting “Live”! 
 

 232The Sun—just touched the Morning—The Morning—Happy thing—Supposed that He had come to dwell—And Life would all be Spring! She felt herself supreme—A Raised—Ethereal Thing!Henceforth,—for Her—What Holiday!Meanwhile,—Her wheeling King—Trailed—slow—along the Orchards—His haughty—spangled Hems—Leaving a new necessity! The want of Diadems! The Morning—fluttered—staggered—Felt feebly—for Her Crown—Her anointed forehead—Henceforth—Her only One! 
 

 642Me from Myself—to banish—Had I Art—Impregnable my FortressUnto All Heart—But since Myself—assault Me—How have I peaceExcept by subjugatingConsciousness? And since We're mutual Monarch this except by Abdication—Me—of Me? 
 

 The day came slow, till five o'clock, Then sprang before the hills, Like hindered rubies, or the light, A sudden musket spills. The purple could not keep the east.The sunrise shook from fold. Like breadths of topaz, packed a night, The lady just unrolled. The happy winds their timbrels took;The birds in docile rows, Arranged themselves around their prince.(The wind is prince of those.) The orchard sparkled like a Jew, ---How mighty 'twas to stay, A guest in this stupendous place, The parlor of the day. 
 

 Our lives are Swiss --So still -- so Cool --Till some odd afternoon Alps neglect their Curtains we look farther on! Italy stands the other side! While like a guard between --The solemn Alps --The siren AlpsForever intervene! 
 

 751My Worthiness is all my Doubt—His Merit—all my fear—Contrasting which, my quality lowlier—appear—Lest I should be insufficient professor His beloved Need—The Chiefest ApprehensionUpon my thronging Mind—'Ti's true—that Deity to stoopInherently incline—For nothing higher than ItselfItself can rest upon—So I—the divine abode His Elect Content—Conform my Soul—as 'were a Church, Unto Her Sacrament— 
 

 Remorse — is Memory — awake — Her Parties all astir — A Presence of Departed Acts — At window — and at Door — Its Past — set down before the Sound lighted with a Match — Perusal — to facilitate — And help Belief to stretch — Remorse is careless — the Disease even God — can heal — For 'TIS His institution — another Adequate of Hell — 
 

 89Some things that fly there be—Birds—Hours—the Bumblebee—Of these no Elegy. Some things that stay there be—Grief—Hills—Eternity&mda sh;Nor this behooves me. There are that resting, rise. Can I expound the skies? How still the Riddle lies!  
 

 To die--takes just a little while--They say it doesn't hurt--It's only fainter--by degrees--And then--it's out of sight--A darker Ribbon--for a Day--A Crape upon the Hat--And then the pretty sunshine comes--And helps us to forget--The absent--mystic--creature--That but for love of us--Had gone to sleep--that soundest time--Without the weariness-- 
 

 463I live with Him—I see His face—I go no more away Visitor—or Sundown—Death's single private Only One—forestalling Mine—And that—by Right that Represents a Claim invisible—No wedlock—granted Me—I live with Him—I hear His Voice—I stand alive—Today—To witness to the Certainty Immortality—Taught Me—by Time—the lower Way—Conviction—Every day—That Life like This—is topless—Be Judgment—what it may— 
 

 Her final summer was it, And yet we guessed it not;If tenderer industriousnessPervaded her, we thought further force of redeveloped from within, --When Death lit all the shortness up, And made the hurry plain. We wondered at our blindness, --When nothing was to debut her Carrera guide-post, --At our stupidityWhen, duller than our dullness, The busy darling lay, So busy was she, finishing, So leisurely were we! 
 

 556The Brain, within its Governs evenly—and true—But let a Splinter swerve—'Were easier for You—To put a Current back—When Floods have slit the Hills—And scooped a Turnpike for Themselves—And trodden out the Mills— 
 

 576I prayed, at first, a little Girl, Because they told me to—But stopped, when qualified to guess prayer would feel—to me—If I believed God looked around, Each time my Childish affixed full, and steady, on his owning Childish honesty—And told him what I'd like, today, And parts of his far plantar baffled me—The mingled side his Divinity—And often since, in Danger, I count the force 'would beta have a God so strong as that hold my life for still I could take the BalanceThat tips so frequent, now, It takes me all the while to poise—And then—it doesn't stay— 
 

 293I got, so I could take his name—Without—Tremendous gain—That Stop-sensation—on my Soul—And Thunder—in the Room—I got, so I could walk acrossThat Angle in the floor, Where he turned so, and I turned—how—And all our Sinew tore—I got, so I could stir the Box—In which his letters grewWithout that forcing, in my breath—As Staples—driven through—Could dimly recollect a Grace—I think, they call it “God”—Renowned to ease Extremity—When Formula, had failed—And shape my Hands—Petition's way, Tho' ignorant of a worth Ordination—utters—My Business, with the Cloud, If any Power behind it, be, Not subject to Despair—It cares, in some remoter way, For so minute affairs Misery—Itself, too vast, for interrupting—more— 
 

 The Grass so little has to do –A Sphere of simple Green — With only Butterflies to broadband Bees to entertain –And stir all day to pretty Tunes Breezes fetch along — And hold the Sunshine in its Lapland bow to everything — And thread the Dew's, all night, like Pearls — And make itself so fine Duchess were too common For such a noticing — And even when it dies — to passing Odors so divine — Like Lowly spices, lain to sleep — Or Spikenards, perishing — And then, in Sovereign Barns to dwell — And dream the Days away, The Grass so little has to DOI wish I were a Hay — 
 

 The spider holds a Silver Balling unperceived Hands--And dancing softly to Himself Yarn of Pearl--unwinds--He plies from Bought to Nought--In unsubstantial Trade--Supplants our Tapestries with His--In half the period--An Hour to rear supreme Continents of Light--Then dangle from the Housewife's Broom--His Boundaries--forgot-- 
 

 191The Skies can't keep their secret! They tell it to the Hills—The Hills just tell the Orchards—And they—the Daffodils! A Bird—by chance—that goes that way—Soft overhears the whole—If I should bribe the little Bird—Who knows, but she would tell? I think I won't—however—It's finer—not to know—If Summer were an Axiom—What sorcery had Snow? So keep your secret—Father! I would not—if I could, Know what the Sapphire Fellows, do, In your new-fashioned world! 
 

 655Without this—there is bought—All other Riches beat is the Twitter of a Bird—Heard opposite the Sea—I could not care—to gain lesser than the Whole—For did not this includes themselves—As Seams—include the Ball? I wished a way might bevy Heart to subdivide—'Would magnify—the Gratitude—And not reduce—the Gold— 
 

 Water makes many Bedsore those averse to sleep — Its awful chamber open stands — Its Curtains blandly sweep — Abhorrent is the Resting undulating RoomsWhose Amplitude no end invades — Whose Axis never comes. 
 

 Pain has an element of blank;It cannot recollection it began, or if their wereA day when it was not. It has no future but itself, Its infinite realms contains past, enlightened to perceived periods of pain. 
 

 Tie the strings to my life, my Lord, Then I am ready to go! Just a look at the horses -- Rapid! That will do! Put me in on the firmest side, So I shall never fall;For we must ride to the Judgment, And it's partly down hill. But never I mind the bridges, And never I mind the sea;Held fast in everlasting race By my own choice and thee. Good-by to the life I used to lives, And the world I used to know;And kiss the hills for me, just once; Now I am ready to go! 
 

 777The Loneliness One dare not sound—And would as soon surmises in its Grave go plumbing ascertain the size—The Loneliness whose worst alarms lest itself should see—And perish from before itself just a scrutiny—The Horror not to be surveyed—But skirted in the Dark—With Consciousness suspended—And Being under Lock—I fear me this—is Loneliness—The Maker of the souls Caverns and its CorridorsIlluminate—or seal— 
 

 546To fill a Insert the Thing that caused it—Block it with Other—and 'twill yawn the more—You cannot solder an AbyssWith Air. 
 

 97The rainbow never tells that gust and storm are by, Yet is she more convincingThan Philosophy. My flowers turn from Forums—Yet eloquent declareWhat Cato couldn't prove except the birds were here! 
 

 64Some Rainbow—coming from the Fair! Some Vision of the World Cashmere—I confidently see! Or else a Peacock's purple Pinfeather by feather—on the plainFritters itself away! The dreamy Butterflies bestir! Lethargic pools resume the wharf last year's sundered tune! From some old Fortress on the baronial Bees—march—one by one—In murmuring platoon! The Robins stand as thick today As flakes of snow stood yesterday—On fence—and Roof—and Twig! The Orchid binds her feather for her old lover — Don the Sun! Revisiting the Bog! Without Commander! Countless! Still! The Regiments of Wood and Hill In bright detachment stand! Behold! Whose Multitudes are these? The children of whose turbaned seas—Or what Circadian Land? 
 

 There cam a Wind like a Bugle -It quivered through the Grassland a Green Chill upon the Heats ominous did passe barred the Windows and the Doors As from an Emerald Ghost -The Doom's electric Moccasins very instant passed -On a strange Mob of panting Streisand Fences fled away Rivers where the Houses pantyhose looked that lived — that Day -The Bell within the steeple width flying tidings told -How much can command much can go, And yet abide the World! 
 

 The wind tapped like a tired man, And like a host, 'Come in,'I boldly answered; entered then residence within rapid, footless guest, To offer whom a chairman as impossible as hand sofa to the air. No bone had he to bind him, His speech was like the push numerous humming-birds at onceFrom a superior bush. His countenance a billow, His fingers, if he pass, Let go a music, as of tunesBlown tremulous in glass. He visited, still flitting; Then, like a timid man, Again he tapped- 't was hurriedly- And I became alone. 
 

 714Rest at Nighttime Sun from shining, Nature—and some Men—Rest at Noon—some Men—While Natural the Sun—go on— 
 

 11I never told the buried Golden the hill—that lies—I saw the sun—his plunder doneCrouch low to guard his prize. He stood as areas stood you here—A pace had been between—Did but a snake bisect the brake life had forfeit been. That was a wondrous booty—I hope 'twas honest gained. Those were the fairest Ingolstadt ever kissed the spade! Whether to keep the secret—Whether to reveal—Whether as I ponder Kidd will sudden sail—Could a shrewd advise mere might e'en divide—Should a shrewd betray me—Atropos decide! 
 

 599There is a pain—so utter—It swallows substance up—Then covers the Abyss with Trance—So Memory can wraparound—across—upon it—As one within a Swoon—Goes safely—where an open eye—Would drop Him—Bone by Bone. 
 

 944I learned—at least—what Home could be—How ignorant I had been pretty ways of Covenant—How awkward at the HymnRound our new Fireside—but for this—This pattern—of the Way—Whose Memory drowns me, like the Depot a Celestial Sea—What Mornings in our Garden—guessed—What Bees—for us—to hum—With only Birds to interrupted Ripple of our Theme—And Task for Both—When Play be done—Your Problem—of the Brain—And mine—some foolish er effect—A Ruffle—or a Tune—The Afternoons—Together spent—And Twilight—in the Lanes—Some ministry to poorer lives—Seen poorest—tho' our gains—And then Return—and Night—and Home—And then away to You to pass—A new—diviner—care—Till Sunrise take us back to Scene—Transmuted—Vivider—This seems a Home—And Home is not—But what that Place could be—Afflicts me—as a Setting Sun—Where Dawn—knows how to be— 
 

 512The Soul has Bandaged moments—When too appalled to stir—She feels some ghastly Fright come upland stop to look at her—Salute her—with long fingers—Caress her freezing hair—Sip, Goblin, from the very lithe Lover—hovered—o'er—Unworthy, that a thought so meanAccost a Theme—so—fair—The soul has moments of Escape—When bursting all the doors—She dances like a Bomb, abroad, And swings upon the Hours, As do the Bee—delirious borne—Long Dungeoned from his Rose—Touch Liberty—then know no more, But Noon, and Paradise—The Soul's retaken moments—When, Felon led along, With shackles on the plumed feet, And staples, in the Song, The Horror welcomes her, again, These, are not brayed of Tongue— 
 

 3"Sic transit Gloria funds,” “How doth the busy bee,”"Due vicious viva mus,” I stay mine enemy! Oh “veni, vidi, vici!”  Oh, Capet cap-a-pie! And oh “memento mori” When I am far from thee!Hurrah, for Peter Parley!  Hurrah, for Daniel Boone! Three cheers, sir, for the gentleman Who first observed the moon! Peter, put up the sunshine; Patti, arrange the stars;Tell Luna, tea is waiting, And call your brother Mars! Put down the apple, Adam, And come away with me, So shalt thou have a pippin From off my father's tree! I climb the “Hill of Science,” I “view the landscape o'er;”Such transcendental prospect, I né'er beheld before! Unto the Legislature My country bids me go;I'll take my India rubbers, In case the wind should blow! During my education, It was announced to that gravitation, stumbling, Fell from an apple tree! The earth upon an axis Was once supposed to turn, By way of a gymnastic In honor of the sun! It was the brave Columbus, A sailing o'er the tide, Who notified the nations Of where I would reside! Mortality is fatal— Gentility is fine, Rascality, heroic, Insolvency, sublime! Our Fathers being weary, Laid down on Bunker Hill;And tho' full many a morning, Yet they are sleeping still, —The trumpet, sir, shall wake them, In dreams I see them rise, Each with a solemn musket A marching to the skies! A coward will remain, Sir, Until the fight is done;But an immortal hero Will take his hat, and run!Goodbye, Sir, I am going; My country called me;Allow me, Sir, at parting, To wipe my weeping e'e. In token of our friendship Accept this “Bonnie Down,”And when the hand that plucked it Hath passed beyond the moon, The memory of my ashes Will consolation be;Then, farewell, Tuscarora, And farewell, Sir, to thee! 
 

 460I know where Wells grow—Droughtless Wells—Deep dug—for Summer days—Where Mosses go no more away—And Pebble—safely plays—It's made of Fathoms—and a Belt—A Belt of jagged Stone—Inlaid with Emerald—halfway down—And Diamonds—jumbled on—It has no Bucket—Where I rich Bucket I would buy—I'm often thirsty—but my lipase so high up—You see—I read in an Old fashioned BookBeat People “thirst no more”—The Wells have Buckets to them there—It must mean that—I'm sure—Shall We remember Parching—then? Those Waters sound so grand—I think a little Well—like Mine—Dearer to understand— 
 

 988The Definition of Beauty that Definition is none—Of Heaven, easing Analysis, Since Heaven, and He is one. 
 

 677To be alive—is Power—Existence—in itself—Without a further function—Omnipotence—Enough—To be alive—and Will!'This able as a God—The Maker—of Ourselves—be what—Such being Finite! 
 

 411The Color of the Grave is Green—The Outer Grave—I mean—You would not know it from the Field—Except it own a Stone—To help the fond—to find it—Too infinite asleep stop and tell them where it is—But just a Daisy—deep—The Color of the Grave is white—The outer Grave—I mean—You would not know it from the Drifts—In Winter—till the Sun—Has furrowed out the Aisles—Then—higher than the Lathe little Dwelling Houses elsewhere each—has left a friend—The Color of the Grave within—The Duplicate—I mean—Not all the Snows could make it white—Not all the Summers—Green—You've seen the Color—maybe—Upon a Bonnet bound—When that you met it with before—The Ferret—cannot find— 
 

 150She died—this was the way she died. And when her breath was Donetsk up her simple wardrobe started for the sun. Her little figure at the Gareth Angels must have spied, Since I could never find hereupon the mortal side. 
 

 289I know some lonely Houses off the Road Robber'd like the look of—Wooden barred, And Windows hanging low, Inviting to—A Portico, Where two could creep—One—hand the Tools—The other peep—To make sure All's Asleep—Old fashioned eyes—Not easy to surprise! How orderly the Kitchen'd look, by night, With just a Clock—But they could gag the Tick—And Mice won't bark—And so the Walls—don't tell—None—will—A pair of Spectacles ajar just stir—An Almanac's aware—Was it the Mat—winked, Or a Nervous Star? The Moon—slides down the stair, To see who's there! There's plunder—where—Tankard, or Spoon—Earring—or Stone—A Watch—Some Ancient Brooch match the Grand mama—Staid sleeping—there—Day—rattles—stealth's—slow—T he Sun has got as farms the third Sycamore—Screams Chanticleer”Who's there”? And Echoes—Trains away, Sneer—”Where”! While the old Couple, just astir, Fancy the Sunrise—left the door ajar!  
 

 835Nature and God—I neither Knesset Both so well knew Letha startled, like Executors My identity. Yet Neither told—that I could learn—My Secret as secures Herschel's private interest Mercury's affair— 
 

 The wind begun to rock the grassing threatening tunes and low, --He flung a menace at the earth, A menace at the sky. The leaves unhooked themselves from Streisand started all abroad;The dust did scoop itself like handstand throw away the road. The wagons quickened on the streets, The thunder hurried slow;The lightning showed a yellow beak, And then a livid claw. The birds put up the bars to nests, The cattle fled to barns;There came one drop of giant rain, And then, as if the handset held the dams had parted hold, The waters wrecked the skybox overlooked my father's house, lust quartering a tree. 
 

 84Her breast is fit for pearls, But I was not a “Diver”—Her brow is fit for thrones I have not a crest. Her heart is fit for home—I—a Sparrow—build there Sweet of twigs and winery perennial nest. 
 

 338I know that He exists. Somewhere—in Silence—He has hid his rare lifeforms our gross eyes.'This an instant's play.'This a fond Ambush—Just to make Blister her own surprise! But—should the approve piercing earnest—Should the glee—glaze—In Death's—stiff—stare—Would not the outlook too expensive! Would not the jest—Have crawled too far!  
 

 442God made a little Gentian—It tried—to be a Rose—And failed—and all the Summer laughed—But just before the Nowhere rose a Purple Creature—That ravished all the Hill—And Summer hid her Forehead—And Mockery—was still—The Frosts were her condition—The Syrian would not community the North—invoke it—Creator—Shall I—bloom? 
 

 292If your Nerve, deny you—Go above your Nerve—He can lean against the Grave, If he fears to swerve—That's a steady posture—Never any handheld of those Brass arms—Best Giant made—If your Soul seesaw—Lift the Flesh door—The Poltroon wants Oxygen—Nothing more— 
 

 I see the better—in the Dark—I do not need a Light—The Love of Thee—a Prism be—Excelling Violet—I see the better for the Earshot hunch themselves between—The Miner's Lamp—sufficient be—To nullify the Mine—And in the Grave—I see The best—It's little Panels below—All ruddy—with the Light held so high, for Thee—What need of Day—To Those whose Dark—hath so—surpassing Sun—It deem it be—Continually—At the Meridian? 
 

 23I had a guinea golden—I lost it in the sand—And tho' the sum was simple pounds were in the land—Still, had it such a Valenti my frugal eye—That when I could not find it—I sat me down to sigh. I had a crimson Robin—Who sang full many a debut when the woods were painted, He, too, did fly away—Time brought me other Robins—Their ballads were the same—Still, for my missing Troubadour kept the “house at have.” I had a star in heaven—One “Lead” was its name—And when I was not heeding, It wandered from the same. And tho' the skies are crowded—And all the night shine—I do not care about it—Since none of them are mine. My story has a moral—I have a missing friend—”Lead” its name, and Robin, And guinea in the sand. And when this mournful dittyAccompanied with tear—Shall meet the eye of traitor In country far from here—Grant that repentance solemn May seize upon his mind—And he no consolationBeneath the sun may find. 
 

 917Love—is anterior to Life—Posterior—to Death—Initial of Creation, another Exponent of Earth— 
 

 A little Snow was here and thereDisseminated in her Hair — Since she and I had met and playedDecade had gathered to Decade — But Time had added not obtainedImpregnable the Refer summer too indelible obdurate for Snows — 
 

 Pain has an element of blank;It cannot recollection it began, or if their wereA day when it was not. It has no future but itself, Its infinite realms contains past, enlightened to perceived periods of pain. 
 

 505I would not paint—a picture—I'd rather be the Units bright impossibility dwell—delicious—on—And wonder how the fingers feelWhose rare—celestial—stir—Evokes so sweet a Torment—Such sumptuous—Despair—I would not talk, like Cornets—I'd rather be the Reraised softly to the Ceilings—And out, and easy on—Through Villages of Ether—Myself endued Balloon but a lip of Metal—The pier to my Pontoon—Nor would I be a Poet—It's finer—own the Ear—Enamored—impotent—content—The License to revere, A privilege so awfullest would the Dower be, Had I the Art to stun myselfWith Bolts of Melody! 
 

 800Two—were immortal twice—The privilege of few—Eternity—obtained—in Time—Reversed Divinity—That our ignoble Eyesore quality conceived Paradise superlative—Through their Comparative. 
 

 199I'm “wife”—I've finished that—That other state—I'm Czar—I'm “Woman” now—It's safer so—How odd the Girl's life looksBehind this soft Eclipse—I think that Earth feels Soto folks in Heaven—now—This being comfort—tenth other kind—was pain—But why compare? I'm “Wife”! Stop there! 
 

 169In Eton Box, when years have flown reverently peer, Wiping away the velvet dust Summers have sprinkled there! To hold a letter to the light—Grown Tawny now, with time—To con the faded syllablesThat quickened us like Wine! Perhaps a Flower's shrivelled checking its stores to find—Plucked far away, some morning—By gallant—moldering hand! A curl, perhaps, from foreheads Constancy forgot—Perhaps, an Antique trinket—In vanished fashions set! And then to lay them quiet back—And go about its care—As if the little Eton Boxcar none of our affair! 
 

 176I'm the little “Heart's Ease”! I don't care for pouting skies! If the Butterfly delay Can I, therefore, stay away? If the Coward Bumble Been his chimney corner stay, I, must resolute be! Who'll apologize for me? Dear, Old fashioned, little flower! Eden is old-fashioned, too! Birds are antiquated fellows! Heaven does not change her blue. Nor will I, the little Heart's Ease—Ever be induced to do! 
 

 209With thee, in the Desert—With thee in the thirst—With thee in the Tamarind wood—Leopard breathes—at last! 
 

 448This was a Poet—It is ThatDistills amazing senseFrom ordinary Meanings—And Attar so immenseFrom the familiar speciesThat perished by the Door—We wonder it was not OurselvesArrested it—before—Of Pictures, the Disclosed—The Poet—it is He—Entitles Us—by Contrast—To ceaseless Poverty—Of portion—so unconscious—The Robbing—could not harm—Himself—to Him—a Fortune—Exterior—to Time— 
 

 508I'm ceded—I've stopped being Theirs—The name They dropped upon my facility water, in the country churches finished using, now, And They can put it with my Dolls, My childhood, and the string of spools, I've finished threading—too—Baptized, before, without the choice, But this time, consciously, of Grace—Unto the supremest name—Called to my Full—The Crescent dropped—Existence's whole Arc, filled up, With one small Diadem. My second Rank—too small the first—Crowned—Crowing—on my Father's breast—A half unconscious Queen—But this time—Adequate—Erect, With Will to choose, or to reject, And I choose, just a Crown— 
 

 26It's all I have to bring today—This, and my heart beside—This, and my heart, and all the fields—And all the meadows wide—Be sure you count—should I forgets one the sum could tell—This, and my heart, and all the BeesWhich in the Clover dwell. 
 

 117In rags mysterious as teethe shining Courtiers go—Veiling the purple, and the plumes—Veiling the ermine so. Smiling, as they request an alms—At some imposing door! Smiling when we walk barefootUpon their golden floor! 
 

 380There is a flower that Bees prefer—And Butterflies—desire—To gain the Purple Democratize Humming Bird—aspire—And Whatsoever Insect pass—A Honey bear awayProportioned to his several heartland her—capacity—Her face be rounder than the Mainland ruddier than the Honor Orchid in the Pasture—Or Rhododendron—worn—She doth not wait for June—Before the World be Green—Her sturdy little CountenanceAgainst the Wind—be seen—Contending with the Grass—Near Kinsman to Herself—For Privilege of Sod and Sun—Sweet Litigants for Life—And when the Hills be full—And newer fashions blow—Doth not retract a single Spicer pang of jealousy—Her Public—be the Noon—Her Providence—the Sun—Her Progress—by the Bee—proclaimed—In sovereign—Swerveless Tune—The Bravest—of the Host—Surrendering—the last—Nor even of Defeat—aware—What cancelled by the Frost— 
 

 923How the Waters closed above Him shall never know—How He stretched His Anguish to that—is covered too—Spreads the Pond Her Base of LiliesBold above the Whose unclaimed Hat and JacketS um the History— 
 

 542I had no Cause to be awake—My Best—was gone to sleep—And Morn a new politeness took—And failed to wake them up—But called the others—clear—And passed their Curtains by—Sweet Morning—when I oversleep—Knock—Recollect—to Me—I looked at Sunrise—Once—And then I looked at Them—And wistfulness in me arose—For Circumstance the same—'Twas such an Ample Peace—It could not hold a Sigh—'Twas Sabbath—with the Bells divorced—'Twas Sunset—all the Day—So choosing but a Gown—And taking but a Prayer—The only Raiment I should need—I struggled—and was There— 
 

 917Love—is anterior to Life—Posterior—to Death—Initial of Creation, another Exponent of Earth— 
 

 543I fear a Man of frugal Speech—I fear a Silent Man—Harangue—I can overtake—Or Babbler—entertain—But He who safety—While the Rest—Expend their furthest pound—Of this Man—I am wary—I fear that He is Grand— 
 

 The cricket sang, And set the sun, And workmen finished, one by one, Their seam the day upon. The low grass loaded with the dew, The twilight stood as strangers with hat in hand, polite and new, To stay as if, or go. A vastness, as a neighbor, came, --A wisdom without face or name, A peace, as hemispheres at home,-- And so the night became. 
 

 Presentiment is that long shadow on the lawnIndicative that suns go down;The notice to the startled grasschat darkness is about to pass. 
 

 942Snow beneath whose chilly softnessSome that never layman their first Repose this Winter admonish TheeBlanket Wealthier the Neighbor so new bestowal thine acclimated CreatureWilt Thou, Austere Snow? 
 

 522Had I presumed to hope—The loss had been to MEA Value—for the Greatness' Sake—As Giants—gone away—Had I presumed to gain Favor so remote—The failure but confirm the Grace In further Infinite—'Ti's failure—not of Hope—But Confident Despair—Advancing on Celestial Lists—With faint—Terrestrial power—'Ti's Honor—though I die—For That no Man obtaining He is justified by Death—This—is the Second Gain— 
 

 5 I have a Bird in springWhich for myself doth sing—The spring decoys. And as the summer nears—And as the Rose appears, Robin is gone. Yet do I not repineKnowing that Bird of methought flown—Learned beyond the sea Melody new for mean will return. Fast is a safer handheld in a truer Landmark mine—And though they now depart, Tell I my doubting healthy're thine. In a serener Bright, In a more golden light speech little doubt and fear, Each little discord harrowed. Then will I not repine, Knowing that Bird of methought flownShall in a distant tree Bright melody for return. 
 

 I had been hungry all the years-My noon had come, to dine-I, trembling, drew the table Zealand touched the curious wine.' T was this on tables I had Shenzhen turning, hungry, lone, I looked in windows, for the wealth could not hope to own. I did not know the ample bread,'T was so unlike the crumble birds and I had often shared In Nature's dining-room. The plenty hurt me, 't was so new, --Myself felt ill and odd, As berry of a mountain bushTransplanted to the road. Nor was I hungry; so I foundThat hunger was a way persons outside windows, The entering takes away. 
 

 295Unto like Story—Trouble has enticed me—How Kinsmen fell—Brothers and Sister—who preferred the Glory—And their young Wilbert to the Scaffold, or in Dungeons—chanted—Till God's full time—When they let go the ignominy—smiling—And Shame went still—Unto guessed Crests, my moaning fancy, leads me, Worn nearby Heads rejected—in the lower country—Of honors there—Such spirit makes her perpetual mention, That I—grown bold—Step martial—at my Crucifixion—As Trumpets—rolled—Feet, small as mine—have marched in Revolutionary to the Drum—Hands—not so stout—hoisted them—in witness—When Speech went numb—Let me not shame their sublime departments—Drilled bright—Beckoning—Etruscan invitation—Toward Light— 
 

 Our journey had advanced;Our feet were almost comet that odd fork in Being's road, Eternity by term. Our pace took sudden awe, Our feet reluctant led. Before were cities, but between, The forest of the dead. Retreat was out of hope, --Behind, a sealed route, Eternity's white flag before, And God at every gate. 
 

 200I stole them from a Bee—Because—Thee—Sweet plea—He pardoned me! 
 

 194On this long storm the Rainbow rose—On this late Morn—the Sun—The clouds—like listless Elephants—Horizons—straggled down—The Birds rose smiling, in their nests—The gales—indeed—were done—Alas, how heedless were the eyes—On whom the summer shone! The quiet nonchalance of death—No Daybreak—can bestir—The slow—Archangel's syllablesMust awaken her! 
 

 531We dream—it is good we are dreaming—It would hurt us—were we awake—But since it is playing—kill us, And we are playing—shriek—What harm? Men die—externally—It is a truth—of Blood—But we—are dying in Drama—And Drama—is never dead—Cautious—We jar each other—And either—open the eyes—Lest the Phantasm—prove the Mistake—And the livid SurpriseCool us to Shafts of Granite—With just an Age—and Name—And perhaps a phrase in Egyptian—It's prudent er—to dream— 
 

 My River runs to thee—Blue Sea! Wilt welcome me? My River wait reply—Oh Sea—look graciously—I'll fetch thee BrooksFrom spotted nooks—Say—Sea—Take Me! 
 

 I am alive—I guess—The Branches on my Handle full of Morning Glory—And at my finger's end—The Carmine—tingles warm—And if I hold a GlassAcross my Mouth—it blurs it—Physician's—proof of Breath—I am alive—because am not in a Room—The Parlor—Commonly—it is—So Visitors may come—And lean—and view it side wise—And add 'How cold—it grew'—And 'Was it conscious—when it stepped In Immortality? 'I am alive—because do not own a House—Entitled to myself—precise—And fitting no one else—And marked my Girlhood's name—So Visitors may Norwich Door is mine—and not. 
 

 175I have never seen “Volcanoes”—But, when Travelers fellow those old—phlegmatic mountainsUsually so still—Bear within—appalling Ordnance, Fire, and smoke, and gun, Taking Villages for breakfast, And appalling Men—If the stillness is Volcanic In the human Aachen upon a pain TitanicFeatures keep their place—If at length the smoldering anguish Will not overcome—And the palpitating Vineyard In the dust, be thrown? If some loving Antiquary, On Resumption Morn, Will not cry with joy “Pompeii”! To the Hills return! 
 

 501This World is not Conclusion. A Species stands beyond—Invisible, as Music—But positive, as Sound—It beckons, and it baffles—Philosophy—don't know—And through a Riddle, at the last—Sagacity, must go—To guess it, puzzles scholars—To gain it, Men have borneContempt of Generations Crucifixion, shown—Faith slips—and laughs, and rallies—Blushes, if any see—Plucks at a twig of Evidence—And asks a Vane, the way—Much Gesture, from the Pulpit—Strong Hallelujahs roll—Narcotics cannot still the Toothiest nibbles at the soul— 
 

 408Unit, like Death, for Whom? True, like the Tomb, Who tells no secretly to Him—The Grave is strict—Tickets admits two—the Bearer—And the Borne—And seat—just One—The Living—tell—The Dying—but a Syllable—The Coy Dead—None—No Chatter—here—no tea—So Babbler, and Korea—stay there—But Gravity—and Expectation—and Fear—A tremor just, that All's not sure. 
 

 90Within my reach! I could have touched! I might have chanced that way! Soft sauntered tho' the village—Sauntered as soft away! So unsuspected VioletsWithin the meadows go—Too late for striving fingersThat passed, an hour ago! 
 

 568We learned the Whole of Love—The Alphabet—the Words—A Chapter—then the mighty Book—Then—Revelation closed—But in Each Other's eyes Ignorance beheld—Diviner than the Childhood's—And each to each, a Child—Attempted to expoundWhat Neither—understood—Alas, that Wisdom is so large—And Truth—so manifold! 
 

 911Too little way the House must fiefdom every Human Heartbeat holds in undisputed Lease white inhabitant—Too narrow is the Right between—Too imminent the chance—Each Consciousness must emigrated lose its neighbor once— 
 

 130These are the days when Birds come back—A very few—a Bird or two—To take a backward look. These are the days when skies resumed old—old sophistries of June—A blue and gold mistake.Oh, fraud that cannot cheat the Bee—Almost thy plausibilityInduces my belief. Till ranks of seeds their witness bear—And softly tho' the altered hurries a timid leaf.Oh, Sacrament! of summer days, Oh Last Communion in the Haze—Permit a child to join. Thy sacred emblems to partake—They consecrated bread to taken thine immortal wine! 
 

 The heart asks pleasure firsthand then, excuse from pain-And then, those little anodynesThat deaden suffering;And then, to go to sleep;And then, if it should Bethe will of its Inquisitor, The liberty to die. 
 

 826Love reckons by itself—alone—”As large as I”—relate the Unto One who never felt it blaze—Itself is all the like it has— 
 

 920We can but follow to the Sun—As oft as He goes down He leave Ourselves a Sphere behind—'Ti's mostly—following—We go no further with the Dustman to the Earthen Door—And then the Panels are reversed—And we behold—no more. 
 

 Safe in their alabaster chambers, Untouched by morning and untouched by noon, Sleep the meek members of the resurrection, Rafter of satin, and roof of stone. Light laughs the breeze in her castle of sunshine;Babbles the bee in a stolid ear;Pipe the sweet birds in ignorant cadences, --Ah, what sagacity perished here! Grand go the years in the crescent above them;Worlds scoop their arcs, and firmaments row, Diadems drop and Doges surrender, Soundless as dots on a disk of snow. 
 

 732She rose to His Requirement—Drenthe Playthings of Her Life take the honorable Work Woman, and of Wife—If ought She missed in Her new Day, Of Amplitude, or Awe—Or first Prospective—Or the Golden using, wear away, It lay unmentioned—as the Redevelop Pearl, and Weed, But only to Himself—be known Fathoms they abide— 
 

 291How the old Mountains drip with Sunset the Hemlocks burn—How the Dun Brake is draped in Cinder the Wizard Sun—How the old Steeples hand the Scarlatti the Ball is full—Have I the lip of the FlamingoThat I dare to tell? Then, how the Fire ebbs like Billows—Touching all the Grassing a departing—Sapphire—feature— As a Duchess passed—How a small Dusk crawls on the VillageTill the Houses blond the odd Flambe, no men carryGlimmer on the Street—How it is Night—in Nest and Kennel—And where was the Wood—Just a Dome of Abyss is BowingInto Solitude—These are the Visions flitted Guido—Titian—never told—Domenico dropped his pencil—Paralyzed, with Gold— 
 

 79Going to Heaven! I don't know when—Pray do not ask me how!Indeed, I'm too astonished think of answering you! Going to Heaven! How dim it sounds! And yet it will be donas sure as flocks go home at nightspot the Shepherd's arm! Perhaps you're going too! Who knows? If you should get there firsthand just a little space for close to the two I lost—The smallest “Robe” will fit mean just a bit of “Crown”—For you know we do not mind our dressed we are going home—I'm glad I don't believe for it would stop my breath—And I'd like to look a little more At such a curious Earth! I'm glad they did believe whom I have never founding the might Autumn afternoon left them in the ground. 
 

 They shut me up in Prose --As when a little Maratha put me in the Closet --Because they liked me “still” --Still! Could themselves have peeped --And seen my Brain -- go round --They might as wise have lodged a Birder Treason -- in the Pound --Himself has but to Willard easy as a StarAbolish his Captivity --And laugh -- No more have I -- 
 

 857Uncertain lease—develops Austrian TimeUncertain Grasp, appreciation Sum—The shorter Fate—is oftener the chiefestBecauseInheritors upon a tenderize— 
 

 569I reckon—when I count it all—First—Poets—Then the Sun—Then Summer—Then the Heaven of God—And then—the List is done—But, looking back—the First so seems Comprehend the Whole—The Others look a needless Show—So I write—Poets—All—Their Summer—lasts a Solid Year—They can afford a Subtle East—would deem extravagant—And if the Further Heaven—Be Beautiful as they preparer Those who worship Them—It is too difficult a Grace—To justify the Dream— 
 

 181I lost a World — the other day! Has Anybody found? You'll know it by the Row of Turnaround its forehead bound. A Rich man—might not notice it—Yet—to my frugal Eye, Of more Esteem than Ducats—Oh find it—Sir—for me! 
 

 252I can wade Grief—Whole Pools of it—I'm used to that—But the least push of Breaks up my feet—And I tip—drunken—Let no Pebble—smile—'Twas the New Liquor—That was all! Power is only Pain—Stranded, tho' Discipline, Till Weights—will hang—Give Balm—to Giants—And they'll wilt, like Men—Give Himmler—They'll Carry—Him! 
 

 My Garden—like the Beach—Denotes there be—a Sea—That's Summer—Such as These—the Pearls fetches—such as Me 
 

 485To make One's Toilette—after Deaths made the Toilette color only Taste we cared to pleases difficult, and still—That's easier—than Braid the Hair—And make the Bodice gay—When eyes that fondled it are wrenched Decalogue's—away— 
 

 698Life—is what we make of it—Death—we do not know—Christ's acquaintance with Justify Him—though—He—would trust no stranger—Other—could betray—Just His own endorsement—That—suffice Me—All the other Distance He hath traversed first—No New Mile remained—Far as Paradise—His sure foot preceding—Tender Pioneer—Base must be the Coward Dare not venture—now— 
 

 351I felt my life with both my hands see if it was there—I held my spirit to the Glass, To prove it possible—I turned my Being round and rounded paused at every pounds ask the Owner's name—For doubt, that I should know the Sound—I judged my features—jarred my hair—I pushed my dimples by, and waited—If they—twinkled back—Conviction might, of me—I told myself, “Take Courage, Friend—That—was a former time—But we might learn to like the Heaven, As well as our Old Home!” 
 

 500Within my Garden, rides a Birdsong a single Wheel—Whose spokes a dizzy Music makes 'were a travelling Mill—He never stops, but slackensAbove the Ripest Rose—Partakes without alighting praises as he goes, Till every spice is tasted—And then his Fairy Degrees in remoter atmospheres—And I rejoin my Dog, And He and I, perplex USAF positive, 'were we—Or bore the Garden in the Branches Curiosity—But He, the best Logician, Refers my clumsy eye—To just vibrating Blossoms! An Exquisite Reply! 
 

 This quiet dust was gentlemen and ladies lads and girls;Was laughter and ability and sighing, And frocks and curls;This passive place a summer's nimble mansion, Where bloom and beesFulfilled their oriental circuit, Then ceased like these. 
 

 124In lands I never saw—they immortal Alps look down—Whose Bonnets touch the firmament—Whose Sandals touch the town—Meek at whose everlasting feet Myriad Daisy play—Which, Sir, are you and which am Upon an August day? 
 

 767To offer brave assistance Lives that stand alone—When One has failed to stop them—Is Human—but Divine lend an Ample SinewUnto a Nameless Man—Whose Homely Benediction No other—stopped to earn— 
 

 846Twice had Summered her fair VerdureProffered to the Plain—Twice a Winter's silver Fracture the Rivers been—Two full Autumns for the SquirrelBounteous prepared—Nature, Had'st thou not a Error thy wandering Bird? 
 

 Going to him! Happy letter! Tell him--Tell him the page I didn't write;Tell him I only said the syntax, And left the verb and the pronoun out. Tell him just how the fingers hurriedThen how they waded, slow, slow, slow-And then you wished you had eyes in your pages, So you could see what moved them so.' Tell him it wasn't a practiced writer, You guessed, from the way the sentence toiled;You could hear the bodice tug, behind you, As if it held but the might of a child;You almost pitied it, you, it worked so. Tell him--No, you may quibble there, For it would split his heart to know it, And then you and I were silenter.' Tell him night finished before we finished the old clock kept neighing 'day!' And you got sleepy and begged to be ended--What could it hinder so, to say? Tell him just how she sealed you, cautious if he asks where you are until to-morrow, --happy letter! Gesture, coquette, and shake your head!' 
 

 'Twas Crisis—All the length had passed—That dull—benumbing timeshare is in Fever or Event—And now the Chance had come—The instant holding in its lathe privilege to liver warrant to report the South other side the Grave. The Muscles grappled as with headshot would not let the Will—The Spirit shook the Adamant—But could not make it feel. The Second poised—debated—shot—Another had begun—And simultaneously, a Soundscape the House unseen— 
 

 949Under the Light, yet under, Under the Grass and the Dirt, Under the Beetle's CellarUnder the Clover's Root, Further than Arm could stretcher it Giant long, Further than Sunshine Boulder the Day Year long, Over the Light, yet over, Over the Arc of the Bird—Over the Comet's chimney—Over the Cubit's Head, Further than Guess can gallopFurther than Riddle ride—Oh for a Disc to the DistanceBetween Ourselves and the Dead! 
 

 54If I should die, And you should live—And time should gurgle on—And morn should beam—And noon should burn—As it has usual done—If Birds should build as Ireland Bees as bustling go—One might depart at optionFrom enterprise below!'This sweet to know that stocks will standee we with Daisies lie—That Commerce will continue—And Trades as briskly fly—It makes the parting tranquil keeps the soul serene—That gentlemen so sprightlyConduct the pleasing scene! 
 

 179If I could bribe them by a Rose'd bring them every flower that growsFrom Amherst to Cashmere! I would not stop for night, or storm—Or frost, or death, or anyone—My business were so dear! If they lingered for a Bird Tambourine were soonest headlong the April Woods! Unwearied, all the summer long, Only to break in wilder lengthen Winter shook the boughs! What if they hear me! Who shall that such an importunity May not at last avail? That, weary of this Beggar's face—They may not finally say, Yes—To drive her from the Hall? 
 

 He fumbles at your spirit As players at the keysBefore they drop full music on; He stuns you by degrees, Prepares your brittle substance For the ethereal blow, By fainter hammers, further heard, Then nearer, then so slower breath has time to straighten, Your brain to bubble cool, --Deals one imperial thunderbolt That scalps your naked soul. 
 

 934That is solemn we have ended Be it but a Player a Glee among the Narrator a Holiday a leaving Home, or later, Parting with a World have understood for betterStill to be explained. 
 

 906The Admiration—and Contempt—of time—Show justest—through an Open Tomb—The Dying—as it were a HeightReorganizes Estimated what We saw note distinguish clear—And mostly—see that We saw before—'Ti's Compound Vision—Light—enabling Light—The Finite—furnishedWith the Infinite—Convex—and Concave Witness—Back—toward Time—And forward—Toward the God of Him— 
 

 838Impossibility, like WineExhilarates the Mango tastes it; Possibility flavorless—Combined Chance's faintest Tinctured in the former Disenchantment makes ingredients certainly as Doom— 
 

 972Unfulfilled to Observation—Incomplete—to Eye—But to Faith—a Revolution In Locality—Unto Us—the Suns extinguish—To our Opposite—New Horizons—they embellish—Fronting Us—with Night. 
 

 “Unto Me?” I do not know you—Where may be your House?” I am Jesus—Late of Judea—Now—of Paradise”—Wagons—have you—to convey me? This is far from Thence—”Arms of Mine—sufficient Phaeton—Trust Omnipotence”—I am spotted—”I am Pardon”—I am small—”The Least esteemed in Heaven the Chiefest—Occupy my House”— 
 

 41I robbed the Woods—The trusting Woods. The unsuspecting TreesBrought out their Burs and mosses fantasy to please. I scanned their trinkets curious—I grasped—I bore away—What will the solemn Hemlock—What will the Oak tree say? 
 

 Like trains of cars on tracks of plush hear the level bee:A jar across the flowers goes, Their velvet masonryWithstands until the sweet assaulter chivalry consumes, While he, victorious, tilts away vanquish other blooms. His feet are shod with gauze, His helmet is of gold;His breast, a single outwith chrysoprase, inlaid. His labor is a chant, His idleness a tune;Oh, for a bee's experience clovers and of noon! 
 

 315He fumbles at your Souls Players at the KeysBefore they drop full Music on—He stuns you by degrees—Prepares your brittle Nature the Ethereal Blowzy fainter Hammers—further heard—Then nearer—Then so slower Breath has time to straighten—Your Brain—to bubble Cool—Deals—One—imperial&mda sh;Thunderbolt—That scalps your naked Soul—When Winds take Forests in the Paws—The Universe—is still— 
 

 498I envy Seas, whereon He rides—I envy Spokes of Wheels Chariots, that Him convey—I envy Crooked Hallstatt gaze upon His journey—How easy All can somewhat is forbidden utterly As Heaven—unto me! I envy Nests of Sparrows—That dot His distant Eaves—The wealthy Fly, upon His Pane—The happy—happy Leaves—That just abroad His Windowpane Summer's leave to play—The Ear Rings of PizarroCould not obtain for me—I envy Light—that wakes Him—And Bells—that boldly Ringo tell Him it is Noon, abroad—Myself—be Noon to Him—Yet interdict—my Blossom—And abrogate—my Bee—Lest Noon in Everlasting Night—Drop Gabriel—and Me— 
 

 439Undue Significance a starving man attaches Food—Far off—He sighs—and therefore—Hopeless—And therefore—Good—Partaken— ;it relieves—indeed—But proves that Spices flying the Receipt—It was the Distance—Was Savory— 
 

 I had no time to hate, because grave would hinder me, And life was not so ample Could finish enmity. Nor had I time to love, but income industry must be, The little toil of love, I thought, Was large enough for me. 
 

 897How fortunate the Grave—All Prizes to obtain—Successful certain, if at last, First Suitor not in vain. 
 

 682'Would ease—a Butterfly—Elate—a Bee—Thou'rt neither—Neither—thy capacity—But, Blossom, where I, I would rather Betty momenta a Bee's Eternity—Content of fading enough for me—Fade I unto Divinity—And Dying—Lifetime—Ample as the Eye—Her least attention raise on me— 
 

 God gave a loaf to every bird, But just a crumb to me;I dare not eat it, though I starve, --My poignant luxury own it, touch it, prove the feather made the pellet mine, --Too happy in my sparrow chancellor ampler coveting. It might be famine all around, I could not miss an ear, Such plenty smiles upon my board, My garner shows so fair. I wonder how the rich may feel, --An Indiaman--an Earl? I deem that I with but a crumb Am sovereign of them all. 
 

 201Two swimmers wrestled on the spar—Until the morning sun—When One—turned smiling to the land—Oh God! The Other One! The stray ships—passing—Spied a face—Upon the waters borne—With eyes in death—still begging raised—And hands—beseeching—thrown! 
 

 659That first Day, when you praised Me, Sweet, And said that I was strong—And could be mighty, if I liked—That Day—the Days among—Glows Central—like a JewelBetween Diverging Golds—The Minor One—that gleamed behind—And Vaster—of the World's. 
 

 248Why—do they shut Me out of Heaven? Did I sing—too loud? But—I can say a little 'Minor'Timid as a Bird! Wouldn't the Angels try me—Just—once—more—Just—see—if I troubled them—But don't—shut the door! Oh, if I—were the Gentleman In the 'White Robe'—And they—were the little Hand—that knocked—Could—I—forbid? 
 

 625'Twas a long Parting—but the Timor Interview—had Come—Before the Judgment Seat of God—The last—and second timetable Fleshless Lovers met—A Heaven in a Gaze—A Heaven of Heavens—the Privilege one another's Eyes—No Lifetime—on Them—Appareled as the newborn—except They had beheld—Born infinite—now—Was Bridal—e'er like This? A Paradise—the Host—And Cherubim—and Seraphic—The unobtrusive Guest— 
 

 342It will be Summer—eventually. Ladies—with parasols—Sauntering Gentlemen—with Canes—And little Girls—with Dolls—Will tint the pallid landscape—As 'were a bright Bouquet—Tho' drifted deep, in Marian—The Village lies—today—The Lilacs—bending many a year—Will sway with purple load—The Bees—will not despise the tune—Their Forefathers—have hummed—The Wild Rose—redden in the Bog—The Aster—on the Hillier everlasting fashion—set—And Covenant Gentians—frill—Till Summer folds her miracle—As Women—do—their Gown—Of Priests—adjust the Symbols—When Sacrament—is done— 
 

 375The Angle of a Landscape—That every time I wake—Between my Curtain and the Walloon an ample Crack—Like a Venetian—waiting—Accosts my open eye—Is just a Bough of Apples—Held slanting, in the Sky—The Pattern of a Chimney—The Forehead of a Hill—Sometimes—a Vane's Forefinger—But that's—Occasional—The Seasons—shift—my Picture—Upon my Emerald Bough, I wake—to find no—Emeralds—Then—Diamonds dash;which the Snowdrop Polar Caskets—fetched me—The Chimney—and the Hill—And just the Steeple's finger—These—never stir at all— 
 

 171Wait till the Majesty of DeathInvests so mean a brow! Almost a powdered FootmanMight dare to touch it now! Wait till in Everlasting Roberta Democrat is dressed, Then prate about “Preferment”—And “Station,” and the rest! Around this quiet CourtierObsequious Angels wait! Full royal is his Retinue! Full purple is his state! A Lord, might dare to lift the Ratio such a Modest Classic that My Lord, “the Lord of Lords”Receives unblushingly! 
 

 735Upon Concluded LivesT here's nothing cooler falls—Than Life's sweet Calculations—The mixing Bells and Palls—Make Lacerating Tune—To Ears the Dying Side—'Ti's Coronal—and Funeral—Saluting—in the Road— 
 

 830To this World she returned. But with a tinge of that—A Compound manner, As a Espoused a Violet, That chiefer to the Siesta to himself, allied, Dwelt hesitating, half of Dust, And half of Day, the Bride. 
 

 The sky is low, the clouds are mean, A travelling flake of snowdrops a barn or through a debates if it will go. A narrow wind complains all Dayton someone treated him;Nature, like us, is sometimes caughtWithout her diadem. 
 

 404How many Flowers fail in Wood—Or perish from the Hill—Without the privilege to Northam they are Beautiful—How many cast a nameless Coupon the nearest Breeze—Unconscious of the Scarlet Freight—It bears to Other Eyes— 
 

 To my quick ear the leaves conferred; The bushes they were bells;I could not find a privacy From Nature's sentinels. In cave if I presumed to hide, The walls began to tell;Creation seemed a mighty crack To make me visible. 
 

 We play at paste, Till qualified for pearl, Then drop the paste, And deem ourselves a fool. The shapes, though, were similar, And our new handsLearned gem-tacticsPractising sands. 
 

 718I meant to find Her when I came—Death—had the same design—But the Success—was His—it seems—And the Surrender—Mine—I meant to tell Her how I longer just this single time—But Death had told Her so the first—And she had past, with Him—To wander—now—is my Repose—To rest—To rest would BEA privilege of Hurricane Memory—and Me. 
 

 326I cannot dance upon my Toes—No Man instructed me—But oftentimes, among my mind, A Glee possessed me, That had I Ballet knowledge—Would put itself abroad In Pirouette to blanch a Troupe—Or lay a Prime, mad, And though I had no Gown of Gauze—No Ringlet, to my Hair, Nor hopped to Audiences—like Birds, One Claw upon the Air, Nor tossed my shape in Eider Balls, Nor rolled on wheels of snowfall I was out of sight, in sound, The House encore me so—Nor any know I know the Art mention—easy—Here—Nor any Placard boast me—It's full as Opera— 
 

 223I Came to buy a smile—today—But just a single smile—The smallest one upon your face Will suit me just as well—The one that no one else would misfit shone so very small—I'm pleading at the “counter”—sir—Could you afford to sell—I've Diamonds—on my fingers—You know what Diamonds are? I've Rubies—live the Evening Blood—And Topaz—like the star!' Twould be “a Bargain” for a Jew! Say—may I have it—Sir? 
 

 193I shall know why—when Time is over—And I have ceased to wonder why—Christ will explain each separate anguishing the fair schoolroom of the sky—He will tell me what “Peter” promised—And I—for wonder at his woe—I shall forget the drop of AnguishThat scalds me now—that scalds me now! 
 

 50I haven't told my garden yet—Lest that should conquer me. I haven't quite the strength nowt break it to the Bee—I will not name it in the streetcar shops would stare at me—That one so shy—so ignorantShould have the face to die. The hillsides must not know it—Where I have rambled so—Nor tell the loving forests day that I shall go—Nor lisp it at the table—Nor heedless by the washing that within the Ridden will walk today— 
 

 1100The last Night that She lived It was a Common NightExcept the Dying—this to Unmade Nature different noticed the smallest things—Things overlooked before this great light upon our MindsItalicized—as 'were. As We went out and between Her final Command Rooms where Those to be aliveTomorrow were, a Blumenthal Others could erstwhile She must finish quite Jealousy for Her arose nearly infinite—We waited while She passed—It was a narrow time—Too jostled were Our Souls to speak At length the notice came. She mentioned, and forgot—Then lightly as a Reediest to the Water, struggled scarce—Consented, and was dead—And We – We placed the Hair—And drew the Head erect—And then an awful leisure disbelief to regulate— 
 

 527To put this World down, like a Bundle—And walk steady, away, Requires Energy—possibly Agony—'Ti's the Scarlet trodden with straight renunciation the Son of God—Later, his faint ConfederatesJustify the Road—Flavors of that old Crucifixion—Filaments of Bloom, Pontius Pilate sowed—Strong Clusters, from Barabbas' Tomb—Sacrament, Saints partook before us—Patent, every drop, With the Brand of the Gentile Drinker endorsed the Cup— 
 

 57To venerate the simple daysWhich lead the seasons by, Needs but to rememberThat from you or I, They may take the trifleTermed mortality! 
 

 933Two Travelers perishing in Snowshoe Forests as they frozeTogether heard them strengtheningEach other with the wordsThat Heaven if Heaven—must containment Either left behindhand then the cheer too solemn groomer language, and the wind Long steps across the features tooth Love had touched the Month reverential Hyacinth—The taleless Days went still Mystery impatient Ireland those They left rekindled absent, were procured of Heavens Those first furnished, said— 
 

 86South Winds jostle them—Bumblebees come—Hover—hesitate—Dr ink, and are gone—Butterflies passion their passage Cashmere—I—softly plucking, Present them here!  
 

 532I tried to think a lonelier Tangshan any I had seen—Some Polar Expiation—An Omen in the Bone Death's tremendous nearness—I probed Retrieverless things Duplicate—to borrow—A Haggard Comfort springsFrom the belief that Somewhere—Within the Clutch of Thought—There dwells one other Creature Heavenly Love—forgot—I plucked at our Partitions One should pry the Walls—Between Himself—and Horror's Twin—Within Opposing Cells—I almost strove to clasp his Hand, Such Luxury—it grew—That as Myself—could pity Him—Perhaps he—pitied me— 
 

 560It knew no lapse, nor Diminution—But large—serene—Burned on—until through Dissolution—It failed from Men—I could not deem these Planetary forcesAnnulled—But suffered an Exchange of Territory—Or World— 
 

 Because I could not stop for Death, He kindly stopped for me;The carriage held but just ourselves Immortality. We slowly drove, he knew no haste, And I had put away labor, and my leisure too, For his civility. We passed the school where children played, Their lessons scarcely done;We passed the fields of gazing grain, We passed the setting sun. We paused before a house that seemed swelling of the ground;The roof was scarcely visible. The cornice but a mound. Since then 'TIS centuries; but eachFeels shorter than the day first surmised the horses' headwear toward eternity. 
 

 490To One denied the drink tell what Water would be acuter, would it Nathan letting Him surmise? To lead Him to the Welland let Him hear it dripRemind Him, would it not, somewhat His condemned lip? 
 

 582Inconceivably solemn! Things go gay Pierce—by the very Pressor Imagery—Their far Parades—order on the herewith a mute Pomp—A pleading Pageantry—Flags, are a brave sight—But no true Cheever went by One—Steadily—Music's triumphant—But the fine Earpieces with delight Drums too near— 
 

 176I'm the little “Heart's Ease”! I don't care for pouting skies! If the Butterfly delay Can I, therefore, stay away? If the Coward Bumble Been his chimney corner stay, I, must resolute be! Who'll apologize for me? Dear, Old fashioned, little flower! Eden is old-fashioned, too! Birds are antiquated fellows! Heaven does not change her blue. Nor will I, the little Heart's Ease—Ever be induced to do! 
 

 377To lose one's faith—surpassed loss of an Estate—Because Estates can replenished—faith cannot—Inherited with Life—Belief—but once—can be—Annihilate a single clause—And Being's—Beggary— 
 

 529I'm sorry for the Dead—Today—It's such congenial times Neighbors have at fences—It's time o' year for Hay. And Broad—Sunburned AcquaintanceDiscourse between the Toil—And laugh, a homely speciesThat makes the Fences smile—It seems so straight to lie awayFrom all the noise of Fields—The Busy Carts—the fragrant Cocks—The Mower's Meter—Steals—A Trouble lest they're homesick—Those Farmers—and their Wives—Set separate from the Farming—And all the Neighbors' lives—A Wonder if the Sepulchered't feel a lonesome way—When Men—and Boys—and Carts—and June, Go down the Fields to “Hay”— 
 

 To lose thee, sweeter than to rainfall other hearts I knew.This true the drought is destitute, then, I had the dew! The Caspian has its realms of sand, Its other realm of sea. Without this sterile perquisite No Caspian could be. 
 

 344'Twas the old—road—through pain—That unfrequented—one—With many a turn—and thorn—That stops—at Heaven—This—was the Town—she passed—There—where she—rested—last—Then—stepped more fast—The little tracks—close rest—Than—not so swift—Slow—slow—as feet did weary—grow—Then—stopped—no other track! Wait! Look! Her little Book—The leaf—at love—turned back—Her very Hat—And this worn shoe just fits the track—Herself—though—fled! Another bed—a short one—Women make—tonight—In Chambers bright—Too out of sight—though—For our hoarse Good Night—To touch her Head! 
 

 604Unto my Books—so good to turn—Far ends of tired Days—It half endears the Abstinence—And Pain—is missed—in Praise—As Flavors—cheer Retarded GuestsWith Banquet tings to be—So Spices—stimulate the timeline my small Library—It may be Wilderness—without—Far feet of failing Men—But Holiday—excludes the night—And it is Bells—within—I thank these Kinsmen of the Shelf—Their Countenances Enamor—in Prospective—And satisfy—obtained— 
 

 My life had stood--a Loaded Gun-- In Corners--till a Day The Owner passed--identified-- And carried Me away-- And now We roam in Sovereign Woods-- And now We hunt the Doe-- And every time I speak for Him-- The Mountains straight reply-- And do I smile, such cordial light Upon the Valley glow-- It is as a Peruvian face Had let its pleasure through-- And when at Night--Our good Day done-- I guard My Master's Head-- 'Ti's better than the Eider-Duck's Deep Pillow--to have shared-- To foe of His--I'm deadly foe-- None stir the second time-- On whom I lay a Yellow Eye-- Or an emphatic Thumb-- Though I than He--may longer live He is longer must--than I-- For I have but the power to kill, Without--the power to die-- 
 

 388Take your Heaven further on—This—to Heaven divine Has gone—Had You earlier blundered impossibly, e'en You had Keenan Eternity—put on—Now—to ring a Door bands the utmost of Your Hand—To the Skies—apologize—Nearer to Your CourtesiesThan this Sufferer polite—Dressed to meet You—See—in White! 
 

 479She dealt her pretty words like Blades—How glittering they shone—And every One unbarred a Never wantoned with a Bone—She never deemed—she hurt—That—is not Steel's Affair—A vulgar grimace in the Flesh—How ill the Creatures bear—To Ache is human—not polite—The Film upon the amorality's old Custom—Just locking up—to Die. 
 

 504You know that Portrait in the Moon—So tell me who 'TIS like—The very Brow—the stooping eyes—A fog for—Say—Whose Sake? The very Pattern of the Cheek—It varies—in the Chin—But—Ishmael—since we met—'TIS long—And fashions—intervene—When Moon's at full—'Ti's Thou—I say—My lips just hold the name—When crescent—Thou art worn—I note—But—there—the Golden Same—And when—Some Night—Bold—slashing Clouds The away from Me—That's easier—than the other filthy glazes Holiday— 
 

 855To own the Art within the South Soul to entertaining Silence as a Company Festival maintains an unfurnished CircumstancePossession is to Ones an Estate perpetual a reduceless Mine. 
 

 455Triumph—may be of several kinds—There's Triumph in the Roomed that Old Imperator—Death—By Faith 
 

 205I should not dare to leave my friend, Because—because if he should erewhile I was gone—and I—too late—Should reach the Heart that wanted me—If I should disappoint the aesthete hunted—hunted so—to see—And could not bear to shut untitled “noticed” me—they noticed me—If I should stab the patient faiths sure I'd come—so sure I'd come—It listening—listening—went to sleep—Telling my tardy name—My Heart would wish it broke before—Since breaking then—since breaking then—Were useless as next morning's sun—Where midnight frosts—had lain! 
 

 530You cannot put a Fire out—A Thing that can ignite Can go, itself, without a Fan—Upon the slowest Night—You cannot fold a Flood—And put it in a Drawer—Because the Winds would find it out—And tell your Cedar Floor— 
 

 417Is it dead—Find it—Out of sound—Out of sight—”Happy”? Which is wiser—You, or the Wind?” Conscious”? Won't you ask that—Of the low Ground?” Homesick”? Many met it—Even through them—ThisCannot testify—Themselves—as dumb— 
 

 139Soul, Wilt thou toss again? By just such a hazardHundreds have lost indeed—But tens have won an all—Angel's breathless ballotLingers to record thee—Imps in eager CaucusRaffle for my Soul! 
 

 126To fight aloud, is very brave—But gallant er, I know charge within the booth Cavalry of Woe—Who win, and nations do not see—Who fall—and none observe—Whose dying eyes, no CountryRegards with patriot love—We trust, in plumed procession such, the Angels go—Rank after Rank, with even feet—And Uniforms of Snow. 
 

 119Talk with prudence to a Beggar “Potosí,” and the mines! Reverently, to the Hungry your viands, and your wines! Cautious, hint to any Captive have passed enfranchised feet! Anecdotes of air in DungeonsHave sometimes proved deadly sweet! 
 

 I years had been from home, And now, before the door, I dared not open, lest a face never saw Forester vacant into mainland ask my business there. My business, --just a life I left, Was such still dwelling there? I fumbled at my nerve, I scanned the windows near;The silence like an ocean rolled, And broke against my ear. I laughed a wooden laughter I could fear a door, Who danger and the dead had faced, But never quaked before. I fitted to the catchy hand, with trembling care, Lest back the awful door should spring, And leave me standing there. I moved my fingers offs cautiously as glass, And held my ears, and like a whiffled gasping from the house. 
 

 286That after Horror—that 'twas us—That passed the moldering Pier—Just as the Granite Crumb let go—Our Savior, by a Hair—A second more, had dropped too deeper Fisherman to plumb—The very profile of the Thoughts Recollection numb—The possibility—to passWithout a Moment's Bell—Into Conjecture's presence—Is like a Face of Steel—That suddenly looks into outwith a metallic grin—The Cordiality of Death—Who drills his Welcome in— 
 

 863That Distance was between That is not of Mile or Main—The Will it is that situates—Equator—never can— 
 

 867Escaping backward to perceived Sea upon our place—Escaping forward, to confronts glittering Embrace—Retreating up, a Billow's heightRetreating blinded downpour undermining feet to meetInstructs to the Divine. 
 

 Nature rarer uses fellowman another hue;Saves she all of that for sunsets, --Prodigal of blue, Spending scarlet like a woman, Yellow she affordably scantly and selected, Like a lover's words. 
 

 632The Brain—is wider than the Sky—For—put them side by side—The one the other will containing ease—and You—beside—The Brain is deeper than the sea—For—hold them—Blue to Blue—The one the other will absorb—As Sponges—Buckets—do—The Brain is just the weight of God—For—Heft them—Pound for Pound—And they will differ—if they do—As Syllable from Sound— 
 

 425Good Morning—Midnight—I'm coming Home—Day—got tired of Me—How could I—of Him? Sunshine was a sweet place—I liked to stay—But Morn—didn't want me—now—So—Goodnight—Day! I can look—can't I—When the East is Red? The Hills—have a way—then—That puts the Heart—abroad—You—are not so fair—Midnight—I chose—Day—But—please take a little Girl—He turned away! 
 

 619Glee—The great storm is over—Four—have recovered the Land—Forty—gone down together—Into the boiling Sand—Ring—for the Scant Salvation—Toll—for the Bonnie Souls—Neighbor—and friend—and Bridegroom—Spinning upon the Shoals—How they will tell the Story—When Winter shake the Door—Till the Children urge—But the Forty—Did they—come back no more? Then a softness—suffuse the Story—And a silence—the Teller's eye—And the Children—no further question—And only the Sea—reply— 
 

 49I never lost as much but twice, And that was in the sod. Twice have I stood a beggarBefore the door of God! Angels—twice descendingReimbursed my store—Burglar! Banker—Father! I am poor once more! 
 

 They say that 'time assuages,'-- Time never did assuage;An actual suffering strengthens, As sinews do, with age. Time is a test of trouble, But not a remedy. If such it proves, it proves too There was no malady. 
 

 428Taking up the fair Ideal, Just to cast her downtown a fracture—we discover—Or a splintered Crown—Makes the Heavens portable—And the Gods—a lie—Doubtless—”Adam”WMD ash;scowled at Eden—For his perjury! Cherishing—our pool Ideal—Till in purer dress—We behold her—glorified—Comforts—sear ch—like this—Till the broken creatures—We adored—for whole—Stains—all washed—Transfigured—mended— Meet us—with a smile— 
 

 623It was too late for Man—But early, yet, for God—Creation—impotent to help—But Prayer—remained—Our Side—How excellent the Heaven—When Earth—cannot be had—How hospitable—then—the face our Old Neighbor—God— 
 

 594The Battle fought between the Sound No Man—is the One all the Battles prevalent—By far the Greater One—No News of it is had abroad—Its Bodyless CampaignEstablishes, and terminates—Invisible—Unknown&mdas h;Nor History—record it—As Legions of a Nighttime Sunrise scatters—These endure—Enact—and terminate— 
 

 638To my small Hearth His fire came—And all my House allowed fan and rock, with sudden light—'Twas Sunrise—'twas the Sky—Impanelled from no Summer brief—With limit of Decay—'Twas Noon—without the News of Night—Nay, Nature, it was Day— 
 

 662Embarrassment of one another Gods Revelation's limit, AloudIs nothing that is chief, But still, Divinity dwells under a seal. 
 

 I held a Jewel in my fingers—And went to sleep—The day was warm, and winds were prosy—I said ''Twill keep'—I woke—and child my honest fingers, The Gem was gone—And now, an Amethyst remembrances all I own— 
 

 14One Sister have I in our house, And one, a hedge away. There's only one recorded, But both belong to me. One came the road that I came—And wore my last year's gown—The other, as a bird her nest, Builded our hearts among. She did not sing as we did—It was a different tune—Herself to her a musical Bumble bee of June. Today is far from Childhood—But up and down the hills held her hand the tighter—Which shortened all the miles—And still her humble years among, Deceives the Butterfly;Still in her Goethe Violets lieMouldered this many mays. I spilled the dew—But took the morn—I chose this single stardom out the wide night's numbers—Sue — forevermore! 
 

 434To love the Year by Year—May less apparition sacrifice, and cease—However, dear, Forever might be short, I thought to show—And, so I pieced it, with a flower, now. 
 

 600It troubled me as once I was—For I was once a Child—Concluding how an Atom—fell—And yet the Heavens—held—The Heavens weighed the most—by far—Yet Blue—and solid—stood—Without a Bolt—that I could prove—Would Giants—understand? Life set me larger—problems—Some I shall keep—to molehill Algebra is easier—Or simpler proved—above—Then—too dash;be comprehended—What sorer—puzzled me—Why Heaven did not break away—And tumble—Blue—on me— 
 

 62"Sown in dishonor”! Ah! Indeed! May this “dishonor” be? If I were half so fine myself'd notice nobody!” Sown in corruption”! Not so fast! Apostle is askew! Corinthians 1. 15. narrates Circumstance or two! 
 

 348I dreaded that first Robin, so, But He is mastered, now, I'm accustomed to Him grown, He hurts a little, though—I thought If I could only livelily that first Shout got by—Not all Pianos in the Woodshed power to mangle me—I dared not meet the Daffodils—For fear their Yellow GownWould pierce me with a fashions foreign to my own—I wished the Grass would hurry—So—when 'twas time to see—He'd be too tall, the tallest could stretch—to look at me—I could not bear the Bees should come, I wished they'd stay away In those dim countries where they go, What word had they, for me? They're here, though; not a creature failed—No Blossom stayed away In gentle deference to me—The Queen of Calvary—Each one salutes me, as he goes, And I, my childish Plumes, Lift, in bereaved acknowledgment their unthinking Drums— 
 

 523Sweet—You forgot—but I rememberedEvery time—for Two—So that the Sum be never hinderedThrough Decay of You—Say if I erred? Accuse my Farthings—Blame the little Unhappy it is for You—a Beggar's—Seeking More—to spend—Just to be Rich—to waste my Guineas so Best a Heart—Just to be Poor—for Barefoot Vision—Sweet—Shut me out— 
 

 711Strong Drafts of Their Refreshing Midst drink—enables Run-through Desert or the Wildernesses bore it Sealed Wine—To go elastic—Or as Goethe Camel's trait—attained—How powerful the Stimulus a Hermetic Mind— 
 

 414'Twas like a Maelstrom, with a notch, That nearer, every Day, Kept narrowing its boiling WheelUntil the AgonyToyed coolly with the final Inchon your delirious Hem—And you drop, lost, When something broke—And let you from a Dream—As if a Goblin with a Gauge—Kept measuring the Hours—Until you felt your Secondhand, helpless, in his Paws—And not a Sinew—stirred—could help, And sense was setting numb—When God—remembered—and the Friendly go, then, Overcome—As if your Sentence stood—pronounced—And you were frozen from Dungeon's luxury of Doubt Gibbets, and the Dead—And when the Film had stitched your eyes Creature gasped “Reprieve”! Which Anguish was the utter est—then—To perish, or to live? 
 

 310Give little Anguish—Lives will fret—Give Avalanches—And they'll slant—Straighten—look cautious for their Breath—But make no syllable—like Death—Who only shows the Marble Disc—Sublimer sort—than Speech— 
 

 690Victory comes late—And is held low to freezing lips—Too rapt with Frost take it—How sweet it would have tasted—Just a Drop—Was God so economical? His Table's spread too high for Us—Unless We dine on tiptoe—Crumbs—fit such little mouths—Cherries—suit Robbins—The Eagle's Golden Breakfast strangles—Them—God keep His Oath to Sparrows—Who of little Love—know how to starve— 
 

 445'Twas just this time, last year, I died. I know I heard the Corn, When I was carried by the Farms—It had the Tassels on—I thought how yellow it would look—When Richard went to mill—And then, I wanted to get out, But something held my will. I thought just how Red—Apples wedged Stubble's joints between—And the Carts stooping round the fields take the Pumpkins in—I wondered which would miss me, least, And when Thanksgiving, came, If Father'd multiply the plates—To make an even Sum—And would it blur the Christmas greedy Stocking hang too higher any Santa Claus to reach Altitude of me—But this sort, grieved myself, And so, I thought the other way, How just this time, some perfect year—Themselves, should come to me— 
 

 218Is it true, dear Sue? Are there two? I shouldn't like to comfort fear of joggling Him! If I could shut him upon a Coffee Cup, Or tie him to a infill I got in—Or make him fast “Toby's” fist—Hist! Whist! I'd come! 
 

 I cannot live with You--It would be Life--And Life is over there--Behind the Sheathe Sexton keeps the Key to--Putting pour Life--His Porcelain--Like a Cup--Discarded of the Housewife--Quaint--or Broke--A newer Sevres pleases--Old Ones crack--I could not die--with You--For One must wait shut the Other's Gaze down--You--could not--And I--could I stand band see You--freeze--Without my Right of Frost--Death's privilege? Nor could I rise--with You--Because Your FaceWould put out Jesus'--That New GraceGlow plain--and foreign my homesick Eye--Except that You than HeS hone closer by--They'd judge Us--How--For You--served Heaven--You know, Or sought to--I could not--Because You saturated Sight--And I had no more Eyesore sordid excellence As Paradise were You lost, I would be--Though My Camera loudest the Heavenly fame--And were You--saved--And I--condemned to Beshear You were not--That self--were Hell to Me--So We must meet apart--You there--I--here--With just the Door apartheid Oceans are--and Prayer--And that White Sustenance--Despair-- 
 

 227Teach Him—When He makes the names—Such a one—to say—On his babbling—Berry—lips—As should sound—to me—Were my Ear—as near his nest—As my thought—today—As should sound—”Forbid us not”—Some like “Emily.” 
 

 I stepped from plank to plank So slow and cautiously;The stars about my head I felt, About my feet the sea. I knew not but the next Would be my final inch, --This gave me that precarious gait Some call experience. 
 

 One need not be a chamber to be haunted, One need not be a house;The brain has corridors surpassingMaterial place. Far safer, of a midnight meetingExternal ghost, Than an interior confrontingThat whiter host. Far safer through an Abbey gallop, The stones chase, Than, moonless, one's own self encountering lonesome place. Ourself, behind ourselves concealed, Should startle most;Assassin, hid in our apartment, Be horror's least. The prudent carries a revolver, He bolts the door, O'er looking a superior spectreMore near. 
 

 1670In Winter in my Room came upon a Worm—Pink, lank and warm—But as he was a Normand worms present quite with him at home—Secured him by a strength something neighboring went along. A Trifle afterwards thing occurred'd not believe it if I haircut state with creeping blood—A snake with mottles resurveyed my chamber flooring feature as the worm before ringed with power—The very string with which tied him—toothed he was mean and Nootka string was there—I shrank—”How fair you are”! Propitiation's claw—”Afraid,” he hissed”Of me”?” No cordiality”—He fathomed me—Then to a Rhythm SlimSecreted in his Format Patterns swimProjected him. That time I fluidity eyes his Wales he pursuer ever ceased to until in a distant Downtown on from mine set me months was a dream. 
 

 A lane of Yellow led the aunt a Purple Woodwork soft inhabitants to surpasses solitude Bird the silence contradictory flower presume to shown that low summer of the WestImpossible to know — 
 

 92My friend must be a Bird—Because it flies! Mortal, my friend must be, Because it dies! Barb has it, like a Bee! Ah, curious friend! Thou puzzles me! 
 

 Years I had been from home, And now, before the door dared not open, lest a face never saw before Stare vacant into mainland ask my business there. My business, — just a life I left, Was such still dwelling there? I fumbled at my nerve, I scanned the windows near;The silence like an ocean rolled, And broke against my ear. I laughed a wooden laughter I could fear a door, Who danger and the dead had faced, But never quaked before. I fitted to the catchy hand, with trembling care, Lest back the awful door should spring, And leave me standing there. I moved my fingers offs cautiously as glass, And held my ears, and like a whiffled gasping from the house. 
 

 665Dropped into the Ether Acre—Wearing the Sod Gown—Bonnet of Everlasting Laces—Brooch—frozen on—Horses of Blonde—and Coach of Silver—Baggage a strapped Pearl—Journey of Down—and Whip of Diamond—Riding to meet the Earl— 
 

 340Is Bliss then, such Abyss, I must not put my foot mission fear I spoil my shoe? I'd rather suit my footman save my Boot—For yet to buy another Paris possible, At any store—But Bliss, is sold just once. The Patent postpone buy it anymore—Say, Foot, decide the point—The Lady cross, or not? Verdict for Boot! 
 

 555Trust in the Unexpected—By this—was William KiddPersuaded of the Buried Gold—As One had testified—Through this—the old Philosopher—His Talisman StoneDiscernéd—still withholding effort divine—'Twas this—allured Columbus—When Genoa—withdrewBefore an ApparitionBaptized America—The Same—afflicted Thomas—When Deity assured'Twas better—the perceiving not—Provided it believed— 
 

 301I reason, Earth is short—And Anguish—absolute—And much hurt, But, what of that? I reason, we could die—The best VitalityCannot excel Decay, But, what of that? I reason, that in Heaven—Somehow, it will be even—Some new Equation, given—But, what of that? 
 

 890From Us She wandered now a Year, Her tarrying, unknown, If Wilderness prevent her feet that Ethereal Zone No eye hath seen and lived ignorant must be—We only know what time of Year took the Mystery. 
 

 You said that I “was Great”—one Day—Then “Great” it is—if that please Thee—Or Small—or any size at all—Nay—I'm the size suit Thee—Tall—like the Stag—would that? Or lower—like the Wren—Or other heights of Other Ones've seen? Tell which—it's dull to guess—And I must be Rhinoceros Mouse—At once—for Thee—So say—if Queen it is—Or Page—please Thee—I'm that—or bought—Or other thing—if other thing there be—With just this Stimulus—I suit Thee— 
 

 It dropped so low in my regard I heard it hit the ground, And go to pieces on the stones At bottom of my mind;Yet blamed the fate that fractured, less Than I reviled myself entertaining plated wares Upon my silver shelf. 
 

 903I hide myself within my flower, That fading from your Vase, You, unsuspecting, feel for me—Almost a loneliness. 
 

 394'Twas Love—not me—Oh punish—pray—The Real one died for Thee—Just Him—not me—Such Guilt—to love Thee—most! Doom it beyond the Rest—Forgive it—last—'Twas base as Jesus—most! Let Justice not mistake—We Two—looked so alike—Which was the Guilty Sake—'Twas Love's—Now Strike! 
 

 723It tossed—and tossed—A little Brig I knew—o'retook by Blast—It spun—and spun—And groped delirious, for Morn—It slipped—and slipped—As One that drunken—step—Its white foot tripped—Then dropped from sight—Ah, Brig—Good Night Crew and You—The Ocean's Heart too smooth—too Blue—To break for You— 
 

 I felt a cleaving in my mind As if my brain had split;I tried to match it, seam by seam, But could not make them fit. The thought behind I strove to join Unto the thought before, But sequence raveled out of reach Like balls upon a floor. 
 

 584It ceased to hurt me, though so slow could not feel the Anguish go—But only knew by looking back—That something—had benumbed the Track—Nor when it altered, I could say, For I had worn it, every day, As constant as the Childish frock—I hung upon the Peg, at night. But not the Grief—that nestled closes needles—ladies softly presto Cushions Cheeks—To keep their place—Nor what consoled it, I could trace—Except, whereas 'twas Wilderness—It's better—almost Peace— 
 

 Nature, the gentlest mother, Impatient of no child, The feeblest or the wayward est, Her admonition mild In forest and the hilly traveler is heard, Restraining rampant squirrel too impetuous bird. How fair her conversation, A summer afternoon, --Her household, her assembly;And when the sun goes downer voice among the aislesIncites the timid prayer the minutest cricket, The most unworthy flower. When all the children sleeps turns as long away As will suffice to light her lamps;Then, bending from the Sopwith infinite affectionate infinite care, Her golden finger on her lip, Wills silence everywhere. 
 

 713Fame of Myself, to justify, All other Plaudit superfluous—An IncenseBeyond Necessity—Fame of Myself to lack—Although Name be else Supreme—These were an Honor honorless—A futile Diadem— 
 

 107'Twas such a little—little boat That toddled down the bay!' Twas such a gallant—gallant seatmate beckoned it away!' Twas such a greedy, greedy caveat licked it from the Coast—Nor ever guessed the stately sails little craft was lost! 
 

 406Some—Work for Immortality—The Chiefer part, for Time—He—Compensates—immediately—The former—Checks—on Fame—Slow Gold—but Everlasting—The Bullion of Today—Contrasted with the Currency Immortality—A Beggar—Here and There—Is gifted to discernBeyond the Broker's insight—One's—Money—One's—the Mine— 
 

 129Cocoon above! Cocoon below! Stealthy Cocoon, why hide you what all the world suspect? An hour and gay on every Trevor secret, perched in ecstasyDefies imprisonment! An hour in Chrysalis to pass, Then gay above receding grass Butterfly to go! A moment to interrogate, Then wiser than a “Surrogate,”The Universe to know! 
 

 876It was a Grave, yet bore no StoneEnclosed 'twas not of Rail Consciousness its Acre, audit held a Human Soul. Entombed by whom, for what offense Home or Foreign born—Had I the curiosity'Were not appeased of mental Resurrection, I must guessDenied the small desire Rose upon its Ridge to sower take away a Brian. 
 

 861Split the Lark—and you'll find the Music—Bulb after Bulb, in Silver rolled—Scantily dealt to the Summer MorningSaved for your Ear when Lutes be old. Loose the Flood—you shall find it patent—Gush after Gush, reserved for you—Scarlet Experiment! Skeptic Thomas! Now, do you doubt that your Bird was true? 
 

 675Essential Oils—are wrung—The Attar from the Rose Be not expressed by Suns—alone—It is the gift of Screws—The General Rose—decay—But this—in Lady's DrawerMake Summer—When the Lady lien Ceaseless Rosemary— 
 

 39It did not surprise me—So I said—or thought—She will stir her pinions the nest forgot, Traverse broader forests—Build in gayer boughs, Breathe in Ear more modern God's old-fashioned vows—This was but a Birding—What and if it bone within my boomed departed me? This was but a story—What and if indeedThere were just such coffining the heart instead? 
 

 523Sweet—You forgot—but I rememberedEvery time—for Two—So that the Sum be never hinderedThrough Decay of You—Say if I erred? Accuse my Farthings—Blame the little Unhappy it is for You—a Beggar's—Seeking More—to spend—Just to be Rich—to waste my Guineas so Best a Heart—Just to be Poor—for Barefoot Vision—Sweet—Shut me out— 
 

 910Experience is the Angled RoadPreferred against the Mindy—Paradox—the Mind itself—Presuming it to mesquite Opposite—How Complicated Discipline of Man—Compelling Him to Choose Himself Reappointed Pain— 
 

 832Soto! Explore thyself! Therein thyself shalt finite “Undiscovered Continent”—No Settler had the Mind. 
 

 901Sweet, to have had them VOSTFR news that they be saved—The nearer they departed The nearer they, restored, Shall stand to Our Right Hand—Most precious and the Dead—Next preciousThose that rose to go—Then thought of Us, and stayed. 
 

 559It knew no Medicine—It was not Sickness—then—Nor any need of Surgery—And therefore—'twas not Pain—It moved away the Cheeks—A Dimple at a time—And left the Profile—plainer—And in the place of Bloom It left the little TintThat never had a Name—You've seen it on a Cast's face—Was Paradise—to blame—If moment ajar—Temerity—drew near—And sickened—ever afterwards Somewhat that it saw? 
 

 765You constituted Time—I deemed Eternity Revelation of Yourself—'Twas therefore Battle Absolute—removed Relative away—That I unto Himself adjusted slow idolatry— 
 

 309For the largest Woman's Hearth I knew—'Ti's little I can do—And yet the largest Woman's Heartwood hold an Arrow—too—And so, instructed by my own, I tenderer, turn Me to. 
 

 383Exhilaration—is within—There can no Outer Wines royally intoxicates that diviner Brandt Soul achieves—Herself—To drink—or set away Visitor—Or Sacrament—'Ti's not of Holiday stimulate a Mango hath the Ample RhineWithin his Closet—Best you exhale in offering. 
 

 866Fame is the tine that Scholars leaven their Setting Names—The Iris not of Occidental disappears as comes— 
 

 296One Year ago—jots what? God—spell the word! I—can't—Wasn't Grace? Not that—Wasn't Glory? That—will do—Spell slower—Glory—Such Anniversary shall be—Sometimes—not often—in Eternity—When farther Parted, than the Common Woe—Look—feed upon each other's faces—so—In doubtful meal, if it is possible Their Banquet's true—I tasted—careless—then—I did not know the Wine Came once a World—Did you? Oh, had you told me so—This Thirst would blister—easier—now—You said it hurt you—most—Mine—was an Acorn's Breast—And could not know how fondness grew In Shaggier Vest—Perhaps—I couldn't—But, had you looked in—A Giant—eye to eye with you, had been—No Acorn—then—So—Twelve months ago—We breathed—Then dropped the Air—Which bore it best? Was this—the patientest—Because it was a Child, you know—And could not value—Air? If to be “Elder”—mean most pain—I'm old enough, today, I'm certain—then—As old as thee—how soon? One—Birthday more—or Ten? Let me—choose! Ah, Sir, None! 
 

 136Have you got a Brook in your little heart, Where bashful flowers blow, And blushing birds go down to drink, And shadows tremble so—And nobody knows, so still it flows, That any brook is there, And yet your little draft of lifers daily drunken there—Why, look out for the little brook in March, When the rivers overflow, And the snows come hurrying from the fills, And the bridges often go—And later, in August it may be—When the meadows parching lie, Beware, lest this little brook of life, Some burning noon go dry! 
 

 774It is a lonesome Glee—Yet sanctifies the Mind—With fair association—Afar upon the Wind Bird to overhearDelight without a Cause—Ar restless as invisible—A matter of the Skies. 
 

 426It don't sound so terrible—quite—as it did—I run it over—”Dead”, Brain, “Dead.” Put it in Latin—left of my school—Seems it doesn't shriek so—under rule. Turn it, a little—full in the face Trouble looks bitterest—Shift it—just—Say “When Tomorrow comes this way—I shall have waded down one Day.” I suppose it will interrupt me sometime I get accustomed—but then the Homelike other new Things—shows largest—then—And smaller, by Habit—It's shrewder then the Thought in advance—a Year—How like “a fit”—then—Murder—wear! 
 

 893Drab Habitation of Whom? Tabernacle or Tomb—Or Dome of Worm—Or Porch of Gnome—Or some Elf's Catacomb? 
 

 141Some, too fragile for winter width thoughtful grave encloses—Tenderly tucking them in from frostBefore their feet are cold.Never the treasures in her nettle cautious grave exposes, Building where schoolboy dare not look, And sportsman is not bold. This covert have all the childrenEarly aged, and often cold, Sparrow, unnoticed by the Father—Lambs for whom time had not a fold. 
 

 A little Dog that wags his Thailand knows no other roof such a little Dog am Reminded by a Who gambols all the living Without an earthly causeBecause he is a little Boy honestly suppose — The Cat that in the Corner dweller martial Day forgotten Mouse but a Tradition now her desireless Another class remind who neither please nor layout not to make a 'bit of noise'Beseech each little Boy — 
 

 438Forget! The lady with the AmuletForget she wore it at her Heartbeats she breathed against Treason twixt? Deny! Did Rose her Bee—For Privilege of Player Wile of Butterfly Opportunity—Her Lord away? The lady with the Amulet—will face—The Bee—in Mausoleum laid—Discard his Bride—But longer than the little Rill—That cooled the Forehead of the Hill—While Other—went the Sea to fill—And Other—went to turn the Mill—I'll do thy Will— 
 

 I counted till they danced their slippers leaped the town, And then I took a pencil note the rebels down. And then they grew so jolly did resign the prig, And ten of my once stately tonsure marshalled for a jig! 
 

 877Each Scar I'll keep for Instead I'll say of Gemini His long Absence worn Costlier debut every Tear I brewery He to count them o'Eris own would fall so more'll MIS sum them. 
 

 34Garland for Queens, may be—Laurels—for rare degree soul or sword. Ah—but remembering me—Ah—but remembering thee—Nature in chivalry—Nature in charity—Nature in equity—This Rose ordained! 
 

 38By such and such an offering Mr. So and So, The web of live woven—So martyrs albums show! 
 

 562Conjecturing a Climate unsuspended Suns—Adds poignancy to Winter—The Shivering Fancy turns a fictitious Country palliate a Cold—Not obviated of Degree—Nor erased—of Latitude— 
 

 722Sweet Mountains—Ye tell Me no lie—Never deny Me—Never fly—Those same unvarying Return on Me—when I fail—or feign, Or take the Royal names in vain—Their far—slow—Violet Gaze—My Strong Madonnas—Cherish still—The Wayward Nun—beneath the Hill—Whose service—is to You—Her latest Worship—When the Daymares from the Firmament away—To lift Her Brows on You— 
 

 487You love the Lord—you cannot see—You write Him—every day—A little note—when you awake—And further in the Day. An Ample Letter—How you miss—And would delight to see—But then His House—is but a Step—And Mine's—in Heaven—You see. 
 

 Elysium is as far as to The very nearest Room If in that Room a Friend await Felicity or Doom-- What fortitude the Soul contains That it can so endure The accent of a coming Foot-- The opening of a Door-- 
 

 6Frequently the wood are pink—Frequently are brown. Frequently the hills undressBehind my native town. Oft a head is crested was wont to see—And as oft a anywhere it used to be—And the Earth— they tell me—On its Axis turned! Wonderful Rotation! By but twelve performed! 
 

 847Finite—to fail, but infinite to Venture—For the one ship that struts the Sherman's the gallant—overwhelmed CreatureNodding in Navies nevermore— 
 

 558But little Carmine hath her face—Of Emerald scant—her Gown—Her Beauty—is the love she doth—Itself—exhibit—Mined ash; 
 

 787Such is the Force of Happiness—The Least—can lift a Unassisted by its stimulus—Who Misery—sustain—No Sinew can afford—The Cargo of Themselves—Too infinite for Consciousness'Slow capabilities. 
 

 978It bloomed and drop, a Single Noon—The Flower—distinct and Red—I, passing, thought another NoonAnother in its stead Will equal glow, and thought no Rebut came another Dayton find the Species disappeared—The Same Locality—The Sun in place—no other fraud Nature's perfect Sum—Had I but lingered Yesterday—Was my retrieveless blame—Many Flowers of this and further Boneshaker perished in my Hands-on seeking its Resemblance—But approached it stands—The single Flower of the Earthiest I, in passing unconscious was—Great Nature's Facepalmed infinite by Me— 
 

 925Struck, was I, not yet by Lightning—Lightning—lets manpower to perceive His Processing Vitality. Maimed—was I—yet not by Venture—Stone of stolid Boy—Nor a Sportsman's Peradventure—Who mine Enemy? Robbed—was I—intact to Bandit—All my Mansion torn—Sun—withdrawn to Recognition—The Furthest shining—done—Yet was not the foe—of any—Not the smallest Birdie the nearest Orchard dwelling Be of Me—afraid. Most—I love the Cause that slew Me. Often as I digits beloved RecognitionHolds a Sun on Me—Best—at Setting—as is Nature's—Neither witnessed Distill the infinite Aurora In the other's eyes. 
 

 55By Rivalries as tiny, A Blossom, or a Book, The seeds of smiles are planted—Which blossom in the dark. 
 

 It struck me every day The lightning was as news if the cloud that instant slit And let the fire through. It burned me in the night, It blistered in my dream;It sickened fresh upon my sight With every morning's beam. I thought that storm was brief,-- The maddest, quickest by;But Nature lost the date of this, And left it in the sky. 
 

 35Nobody knows this little Rose—It might a pilgrim redid I not take it from the wayward lift it up to thee. Only a Bee will miss it—Only a Butterfly, Hastening from far journey—On its breast to lie—Only a Bird will wonder—Only a Breeze will sigh—Ah Little Rose—how easy such as thee to die! 
 

 457Sweet—safe—Houses—Glad—gay—Houses—Sealed so stately tight—Lids of Steel—on Lids of Marble—Locking Bare feet out—Brooks of Plush—in Banks of Cannot so softly falls the laughter—and the whisper—From their People Pearl—No Bald Death—affront their Parlors—No Bold Sickness comet deface their Stately Treasures—Anguish—and the Tomb—Hum by—in Muffled Coaches—Lest they—wonder Why—Any—for the Press of Smiling—Interrupt—to die— 
 

 244It is easy to work when the soul is at play—But when the soul is in pain—The hearing him put his playthings uptakes work difficult—then—It is simple, to ache in the Bone, or the Rind—But Gimlets—among the nerve—Mangle daintier—terrible—Like a Painter in the Glove— 
 

 679Conscious am I in my Chamber, Of a shapeless friend—He doth not attest by Posture—Nor Confirm—by Word—Neither Place—need I present Him—Fitter CourtesyHospitable intuition His Company—Presence—is His furthest license—Neither He to Minor Myself to Him—by Accent—Forfeit Probity—Weariness of Him, were quainterThan MonotonyKnew a Particle—of Space'vast SocietyNeither if He visits Other—Does He dwells—or Nay—know I—But Instinct esteem Immortality— 
 

 156You love me—you are sure—I shall not fear mistake—I shall not cheat wake—Some grinning morn—To find the Sunrise left—And Orchards—bereft—And Dollie—gone! I need not start—you're sure—That night will never be—When frightened—home to Thee I run—To find the windows dark—And no more Dollie—mark—Quite none? Be sure you're sure—you know—I'll bear it better now—If you'll just tell me so—Than when—a little dull Balm grown—Over this pain of mine—You sting—again! 
 

 275Doubt Me! My Dim Companion! Why, God, would be contention but a fraction of the Life—Poured thee, without a stint—The whole of me—forever—What more the Woman can, Say quick, that I may dower therewith last Delight I own! It cannot be my Spirit—For that was thine, before—I ceded all of Dust I knew—What Opulence the forehead I—a freckled Maiden, Whose farthest of Degree, Was—that she might—Some distant Heaven, Dwell timidly, with thee! Sift her, from Brow to Barefoot! Strain till your last Surmise—Drop, like a Tapestry, away, Before the Fire's Eyes—Winnow her finest fondness—But hallow just the snowIntact, in Everlasting flake—Oh, Caviler, for you! 
 

 831Dying! To be afraid of throne must to thine Artilleryman left exposed a Friend—Than thine old Arrow is a ShotDelivered straighter to the Hearth leaving Love behind. Not for itself, the Dust is shy, But, enemy, Beloved Betty Batteries divorce. Fight sternly in a Dying auto Armies, Love and Certainty Love and the Reverse. 
 

 844Spring is the PeriodExpress from God. Among the other seasonsHimself abide, But during March and Adrienne stir abroadWithout a cordial interviewing God. 
 

 773Deprived of other Banquet, I entertained Myself—At first—a scant nutrition—An insufficient Loaf—But grown by slender Addington so esteemed a size'Ti's sumptuous enough for me—And almost to suffice Robin's famine able—Red Pilgrim, He and I—A Berry from our tableReserve—for charity— 
 

 807Expectation—is Contentment—Gain—Satiety—But Satiety—Conviction Necessity an Austere trait in Pleasure—Good, without alarms a too established Fortune—Danger—deepens Sum— 
 

 This is my letter to the world, That never wrote to me,- The simple news that Nature told, With tender Majesty message is committed To hands I cannot see; For love of her, sweet countrymen, Judge tenderly of me! 
 

 580I gave myself to Him—And took Himself, for Pay, The solemn contract of a Lifeway ratified, this way—The Wealth might disappoint—Myself a poorer Promethean this great Purchaser suspect, The Daily Own—of LoveDepreciate the Vision—But till the Merchant buy—Still Fable—in the Isles of Spice—The subtle Cargoes—lie—At least—'TIS Mutual—Risk—Some—found it—Mutual Gain—Sweet Debt of Life—Each Night to owe—Insolvent—every Noon— 
 

 Two butterflies went out at Newman waltzed above a stream, Then stepped straight through the firmament rested on a beam;And then together bore Waylon a shining sea, --Though never yet, in any portiere coming mentioned be. If spoken by the distant bird, If met in ether seamy frigate or by merchantman, Report was not to me. 
 

 472Except the Heaven had come so near—So seemed to choose My Door—The Distance would not haunt me so—I had not hoped—before—But just to hear the Grace depart—I never thought to see—Afflicts me with a Double loss—'Ti's lost—and lost to me— 
 

 938Fairer through Fading—as the Dainty the Darkness dips away—Half Her Complexion of the Sun—Hindering—Haunting—Perishing—Rallies Her Glow, like a dying Friend—Teasing with glittering Amend—Only to aggravate the Walkthrough an expiring—perfect—look— 
 

 “Arcturus” is his other name—I'd rather call him “Star.” It's very mean of Science go and interfere! I slew a worm the other day—A “Savant” passing murmured “Resurvey”—”Centipede”!HQ not;Oh Lord—how frail are we”! I pull a flower from the woods—A monster with a glassComputes the stamens in a breath—And has her in a “class”! Whereas I took the ButterflyAforetime in my hat—He sits erect in “Cabinets”—The Clover bells forgot. What once was “Heaven”Is “Zenith” now—Where I proposed to when Time's brief masquerade was does mapped and charted too. What if the poles should frisk abound stand upon their heads! I hope I'm ready for “the worst”—Whatever prank betides! Perhaps the “Kingdom of Heaven's” changed—I hope the “Children” there Won't be “new fashioned” when I come—And laugh at me—and stare—I hope the Father in the skies Will lift his little girl—Old fashioned—naught—everything—Over the stile of “Pearl.”  
 

 620It makes no difference abroad—The Seasons—fit—the same—The Mornings blossom into Moons—And split their Pods of Flame—Wild flowers—kindle in the Woods—The Brooks slam—all the Day—No Black bird bates his Banjo—For passing Calvary—Auto the Fe—and Judgment—Are nothing to the Bee—His separation from His Rose—To Him—sums Misery— 
 

 519'Twas warm—at first—like Us—Until there crept upon Chill—like frost upon a Glass—Till all the scene—be gone. The Forehead copied Stone—The Fingers grew too cold ache—and like a Skater's Brook—The busy eyes—congealed—It straightened—that was all—It crowded Cold to Cold—It multiplied indifference—As Pride were all it could—And even when with Cords—'Twas lowered, like a Weight—It made no Signal, nor demurred, But dropped like Adamant. 
 

 705Suspense—is Hostile than Death—Death—tho'soever Broad, Is Just Death, and cannot increase—Suspense—does not conclude—But perishes—to live anew—But just anew to die—Annihilation—plated freshwater Immortality— 
 

 “Nature” is what we see—The Hill—the Afternoon—Squirrel—Eclipse—the Bumble bee—Nay—Nature is Heaven—Nature is what we hear—The Bobolink—the Sea—Thunder—the Cricket—Nay—Nature is Harmony—Nature is what we know—Yet have no art to say—So impotent Our Wisdom into her Simplicity. 
 

 The soul selects her own society, Then shuts the door; On her divine majority Obtrude no more.  Unmoved, she notes the chariot's pausing At her low gate; Unmoved, an emperor is kneeling Upon her mat.  I've known her from an ample nation Choose one Then close the valves of her attention Like stone. 
 

 20Distrustful of the Gentian—And just to turn away, The fluttering of her fringesChild my perfidy—Weary for my—————I will sing go—I shall not feel the sleet—then—I shall not fear the snow. Flees so the phantom meadowBefore the breathless Bee—So bubble brooks in desertion Ears that dying lie—Burn so the Evening Spires Eyes that Closing go—Hangs so distant Heaven—To a hand below. 
 

 It was not death, for I stood up, And all the dead lie down;It was not night, for all the bells out their tongues, for noon. It was not frost, for on my flesh felt siroccos crawl, --Nor fire, for just my marble feetCould keep a chancel cool. And yet it tasted like them all;The figures I have seen Set orderly, for burial, Reminded me of mine, As if my life were shaved fitted to a frame, And could not breathe without a key;And 't was like midnight, some, When everything that ticked has stopped, And space stares, all around, Or grisly frosts, first autumn morns, Repeal the beating ground. But most like chaos, --stopless, cool, --Without a chance or spar, --Or even a report of land justify despair. 
 

 Nature the gentlest mother is, Impatient of no child, The feeblest of the wayward est. Her admonition mild In forest and the hill By traveler be heard, Restraining rampant squirrel Or too impetuous bird. How fair her conversation A summer afternoon, Her household her assembly; And when the sun go down, Her voice among the aisles Incite the timid prayer Of the minutest cricket, The most unworthy flower. When all the children sleep, She turns as long away As will suffice tonight her lamps, Then bending from the sky With infinite affection An infinite care, Her golden finger on her lip, Wills silence everywhere. 
 

 110Artists wrestled here! Lo, a tint Cashmere! Lo, a Rose! Student of the Year! For the easel hearsay Repose! 
 

 195For this—accepted Breath—Through it—compete with Death—The fellow cannot touch this Crown—By it—my title take—Ah, what a royal safety my necessity—stooped down! No Wilderness—can Beshear this attended me—No Desert Noon—No fear of frost to complaint the perennial bloom—But Certain June! Get Gabriel—to tell—the royal syllable—Get Saints—with new—unsteady tongue—To say what trance Belmont like their glory show—Fittest the Crown! 
 

 Heart, we will forget him, You and I, tonight! You must forget the warmth he gave, I will forget the light. When you have done pray tell me, Then I, my thoughts, will dim.Haste! ‘Lest while you’re lagging may remember him! 
 

 If many times thought Peace had somewhat Peace was far away—As Wrecked Men—deem they sight the Land—At Center of the Sea—And struggle slacker—but to proves hopelessly as I—How many the fictitious Shores—Before the Harbor be— 
 

 154Except to Heaven, she is bought. Except for Angels—lone. Except to some wide-wandering Been flower superfluous blown. Except for winds—provincial. Except by ButterfliesUnnoticed as a single doormat on the Acre lies. The smallest Housewife in the grass, Yet take her from the Lowland somebody has lost the acetate made Existence—Home! 
 

 “Houses”—so the Wise Men tell me—”Mansions”! Mansions must be warm! Mansions cannot let the tears in, Mansions must exclude the storm!” Many Mansions,” by “his Father,”I don't know him; snugly built! Could the Children find the way there—Some, would even trudge tonight! 
 

 220Could I—then—shut the door—Lest my beseeching face—at last—Rejected—be—of Her? 
 

 Some keep the Sabbath going to Church --I keep it, staying at Home --With a Bobolink for a Chorister --And an Orchard, for a Dome --Some keep the Sabbath in Surplice --I just wear my Wings --And instead of tolling the Bell, for Church, Our little Sexton -- sings. God preaches, a noted Clergyman --And the sermon is never long, So instead of getting to Heaven, at least --I'm going, all along. 
 

 447Could—I do more—for Thee—Were Thou a Bumble Bee—Since for the Queen, have I—Bought but Bouquet? 
 

 836Truth—is as old as God—His Twin identity will endure as long as He Co-Eternity—And perish on the Himself is borne awayFrom Mansion of the Universe lifeless Deity. 
 

 521Endow the Living—with the Tears—You squander on the Dead, And They were Men and Women—now, Around Your Fireside—Instead of Passive Creatures, Denied the CherishingTill They—the Cherishing deny—With Death's Ethereal Scion— 
 

 The brain within its governs evenly and true; But let a splinter swerve,'T were easier for youth put the water backed floods have slit the hills, And scooped a turnpike for themselves, And blotted out the mills! 
 

 879Each Second is the lastPerhaps, recalls the Adjust measuring unconsciousness Sea and Spar between. To fail within a Chance—How terrible a Tangshan perish from the Chance's listBefore the Perishing! 
 

 The bustle in a housetop morning after deaths solemnest of industriesEnacted upon earth, -The sweeping up the heart, And putting love away shall not want to use againUntil eternity. 
 

 590Did you ever stand in a Cavern's Mouth—Widths out of the Sun—And look—and shudder, and block your breath—And deem to be alone In such a place, what horror, How Goblin it would be—And fly, as 'were pursuing you? Then Loneliness—looks so—Did you ever look in a Cannon's face—Between whose Yellow eye—And yours—the Judgment intervened—The Question of “To die”—Extemporizing in your areas cool as Satyr's Drums—If you remember, and were saved—It's liker so—it seems— 
 

 137Flowers—Well—if anybody Can the ecstasy define—Half a transport—half a trouble—With which flowers humble men:Anybody finds the fountainFrom which floods so contra flow—I will give him all the DaisiesWhich upon the hillside blow. Too much pathos in their factor a simple breast like mine—Butterflies from St. DomingoCruising round the purple line—Have a system of aesthetics—Far superior to mine. 
 

 133As Children bid the Guest “Good Night”And then reluctant turn—My flowers raise their pretty lips—Then put their nightgowns on. As children caper when they wakeMerry that it is Morn—My flowers from a hundred cribs Will peep, and prance again. 
 

 246Forever at His side to walk—The smaller of the two! Brain of His Brain—Blood of His Blood—Two lives—One Being—now—Forever of His fate to taste—If grief—the largest part—If joy—to put my piece away that beloved Heart—All life—to know each other—Whom we can never learn—And bye and bye—a Change—Called Heaven—Rapt Neighborhoods of Men—Just finding out—what puzzled us—Without the lexicon! 
 

 174At last, to be identified! At last, the lamps upon thy seethe rest of Life to see! Past Midnight! Past the Morning Star! Past Sunrise! Ah, What leagues there wereBetween our feet, and Day! 
 

 737The Moon was but a Chin of Golda Night or two ago—And now she turns Her perfect Faction the World below—Her Forehead is of The Amplest Blonde—Her Cheek—a Beryl hook—Her Eye unto the Summer Soothe likest I have known—Her Lips of Amber never part—But what must be the smileUpon Her Friend she could conferral such Her Silver Will—And what a privilege to debut the remotest Star—For Certainty She takes Her Wayside Your Palace Door—Her Bonnet is the Firmament—The Universe—Her Shoe—The Stars—the Trinkets at Her Belt—Her Deities—of Blue— 
 

 624Forever—it composed of Now—'Ti's not a different time—Except for Definiteness—And Latitude of Home—From this—experienced Here—Remove the Dates—to These—Let Months dissolve in further Months—And Years—exhale in Years—Without Debate—or Pause—Or Celebrated Days—No different Our Years would from Anna Dominic's— 
 

 797By my Window have I for SceneryJust a Sea—with a Stem—If the Bird and the Farmer—deem it a “Pine”—The Opinion will serve—for them—It has no Port, nor a “Line”—but the Jays—That split their route to the Sky—Or a Squirrel, whose giddy Peninsula May be easier reached—this way—For Islands—the Earth is the under side—And the upper side—is the Sun—And its Commerce—if Commerce it has—Of Spice—I infer from the Odors borne—Of its Voice—to affirm—when the Wind is within—Can the Dumb—define the Divine? The Definition of Melody—is—That Definition is none—It—suggests to our Faith—They—suggest to our Sight—When the latter—is put away shall meet with Conviction I somewhere that Immortality—Was the Pine at my Window a “Fellow the Royal” Infinity? Apprehensions—are God's introductions—To be hallowed—accordingly— 
 

 213Did the Harebell lose her girdle the lover Would the Bee the Harebell hallowMuch as formerly? Did the “Paradise”—persuaded—Yield her moat of pearl—Would the Eden be an Eden, Or the Earl—an Earl?  
 

 454It was given to me by the Gods—When I was a little Girl—They given us Presents most—you know—When we are new—and small. I kept it in my Hand—I never put it down—I did not dare to eat—or sleep—For fear it would be gone—I heard such words as “Rich”—When hurrying to school—From lips at Corners of the Streets—And wrestled with a smile. Rich! 'Twas Myself—was rich—To take the name of Gold—And Gold to own—in solid Bars—The Difference—made me bold— 
 

 31Summer for thee, grant I may been Summer days are flown! Thy music still, when WhipporwillAnd Oriole—are done! For thee to bloom, I'll skip the command row my blossoms o'er! Pray gather me—Anemone—Thy flower—forevermore! 
 

 834Before He comes we weigh the Time!'This Heavy and 'TIS Light. When He departs, an Emptiness the prevailing Freight. 
 

 784Bereaved of all, I went abroad—No less bereaved was Upon a New Peninsula—The Grave preceded me—Obtained my Lodgings, ere myself—And when I sought my Bed—The Grave it was reposed months Pillow for my Head—I waked to find it first awake—I rose—It followed me—I tried to drop it in the Crowd—To lose it in the Sea—In Cups of artificial Drowse steep its shape away—The Grave—was finished—but the SpadeRemained in Memory— 
 

 587Empty my Heart, of Thee—Its single Artery—Begin, and leave Thee out—Simply Extinction's Date—Much Billow hath the Sea—One Baltic—They—Subtract Thyself, in play, And not enough of mess left—to put away—”Myself” meant Thee—Erase the Root—no Tree—Thee—then—no me—The Heavens stripped—Eternity's vast pocket, picked— 
 

 253You see I cannot see—your lifetime—I must guess—How many times it aches for me—today—Confess—How many times for my far seethe brave eyes film—But I guess guessing hurts—Mine—got so dim! Too vague—the face—My own—so patient—covers—Too far—the strength—My timidness enfolds—Haunting the Heart—Like her translated faces—Teasing the want—It—only—can suffice! 
 

 667Bloom upon the Mountain—stated—Blameless of a Name—Efflorescence of a Sunset—Reproduced—the same—Seed, had I, my Purple SowingShould endow the Day—Not a Topic of a Twilight—Show itself away—Who for tilling—to the Mountainous, and disappear—Whose be Her Renown, or fading, Witness, is not here—While I state—the Solemn Petals, Far as North—and East, Far as South and West—expanding—Culminate—in Rest—And the Mountain to the Evening His Countenance—Indicating, by no Muscle—The Experience— 
 

 269Bound—a trouble—And lives can bear it! Limit—how deep a bleeding go! So—many—drops—of vital scarlet—Deal with the souls with Algebra! Tell it the Ages—to a cypher—And it will ache—contented—on—Sigmas h;at its pain—as any Workman—Notching the fall of the Even Sun!  
 

 Between My Country—and the Others—There is a Sea—But Flowers—negotiate between us—As Ministry. 
 

 998Best Things dwell out of Fifth Pearl—the Just—Our Thought. Most shun the Public Illegitimate, and Rare—The Capsule of the Width Capsule of the MindExhibit here, as doth a Burr—Germ's Germ be where? 
 

 It is an honorable thought, And makes one lift one's hat, As one encountered gentlefolk Upon a daily street, That we've immortal place, Though pyramids decay, And kingdoms, like the orchard, Flit Russell away. 
 

 872As the Starved Maelstrom laps the Navies As the Vulture teasedForces the Broods in lonely Valleys As the Tiger eased but a Crumb of Blood, fasts Scarlatti he meet a Mandate adorned with Veins and Tissues partakes—his TongueCooled by the Morsel for a momentous a fiercer instill he esteems his Dates and Cocoa Nutrition mean, of a finer FamineDeem my Supper Pryor but a Berry of Dominant a Torrid Eye. 
 

 970Color—Caste—Denomination—These—are Time's Affair—Death's diviner ClassifyingDoes not know they are—As in sleep—All Hue forgotten—Tenets—put behind—Death's large—Democratic fingers away the Brand—If Circadian—He is careless—If He put awayChrysalis of Blonde—or Umber—Equal Butterfly—They emerge from His Obscuring—What Death—knows so well—Our minuter intuitions—Deem plausible— 
 

 741Drama's Vi tallest Expression is the Common That arise and set about Us—Other TragedyPerish in the Recitation—This—the best enacted the Audience is scattered the Boxes shut—”Hamlet” to Himself were Hamlet—Had not Shakespeare wrote—Though the “Romeo” left no Record his Juliet, It were infinite enacted In the Human Heart—Only Theater recordedOwner cannot shut— 
 

 444It feels a shame to be Alive—When Men so brave—are dead—One envies the Distinguished Dust—Permitted—such a Head—The Stone—that tells defending Worthies Spartan put awayWhat little of Him we—possessed In Pawn for Liberty—The price is great—Sublimely paid—Do we deserve—a Thing—That lives—like Dollars—must be piledBefore we may obtain? Are we that wait—sufficient worth—That such Enormous Pearls life—dissolved be—for Us—In Battle's—horrid Bowl? It may be—a Renown to live—I think the Man who die—Those sustained—Saviors—Present Divinity— 
 

 929How far is it to Heaven? As far as Death this way—Of River or of Ridge bands no discovery. How far is it to Hell? As far as Death this way—How far left hand the SepulchreDefies Topography. 
 

 854Banish Air from Air—Divide Light if you dare—They'll meanwhile Cubes in a Door Pellets of ShapeFitFilms cannot annulOdors return workforce Flamed with a Blonde pushover your impotenceFlits Steam. 
 

 951As Frost is best conceived force of its Result—Affliction is inferred subsequent effect—If when the sun reveal, The Garden keep the Gash—If as the Days resumed wilted countenanceCannot correct the creator counteract the stain—Presumption is Vitality somewhere put in twain. 
 

 475Doom is the House without the Door—'Ti's entered from the Sun—And then the Ladder's thrown away, Because Escape—is done—'Ti's varied by the Dream what they do outside—Where Squirrels play—and Berries die—And Hemlocks—bow—to God— 
 

 999Superfluous were the Sunken Excellence be dead He were superfluous every Mayor every Day be sailboat syllable whose Faithful saves it from Despairing whose “I'll meet You” hesitates Love inquire “Where”? Upon His dateless Famous Periods may lies Stars that drop anonymousFrom an abundant sky. 
 

 111The Bee is not afraid of me. I know the Butterfly. The pretty people in the WoodsReceive me cordially—The Brooks laugh louder when I come—The Breezes madder play;Wherefore mine eye thy silver mists, Wherefore, Oh Summer's Day? 
 

 661Could I but ride indefinite As doth the Meadow Been visit only where I Lakeland No one visit mean flirt all Day with Buttercups marry whom I Mayan dwell a little everywhere better, run await no Police to follower chase Him if He still He should jump Peninsulas get away from me—I said “But just to be a Bee”Upon a Raft of Aired row in Nowhere all Day longhand anchor “off the Bar”What Liberty! So Captives deemed tight in Dungeons are. 
 

 221It can't be “Summer”! That—got through! It's early—yet—for “Spring”! There's that long town of White—to cross—Before the Blackbirds sing! It can't be “Dying”! It's to Rouge—The Dead shall go in White—So Sunset shuts my question downwind Cuffs of Cryolite! 
 

 432Do People Boulder equally, They bury, in the Grave? I do believe a Species As positively lives I, who testify deny that I—am dead—And fill my Lungs, for Witness—From Tanks—above my Head—I say to you, said Jesus—That there be standing here—A Sort, that shall not taste of Death—If Jesus was sincere—I need no further Argue—That statement of the Lords not a controvertible—He told me, Death was dead— 
 

 968Fitter to see Him, I may before the long Hindrance—Grace—to Me—With Summers, and with Winters, grow, Some passing Year—A trait bestowed make Me fairest of the Earth—The Waiting—then—will seem so worth shall impute with half a painted blame that I was chosen—then—Time to anticipate His Gaze—It's first—Delight—and then—Surprise—The turning o'er and o'er my factor Evidence it be the Grace—He left behind One Day—So lessee seek Conviction, That—be This—I only must not grow so Nootka He'll mistake—and ask for EOF me—when first unto the Door go—to Elsewhere go no more—I only must not change so fierce'll sigh—”The Other—She—is Where?” The Love, tho', will array me right shall be perfect—in His sight—If He perceives the other Truth—Upon an Excellent er Youth—How sweet I shall not lack in Vain—But gain—tho' loss—Through Grief—obtain—The Beauty that reward Him best—The Beauty of Demand—at Rest— 
 

 820All Circumstances are the Frame In which His Face is set—All Latitudes exist for Insufficient Continent—The Light His Action, and the Darth Leisure of His Will—In Him Existence serve or set Force illegible. 
 

 121As Watchers hang upon the East, As Beggars revel at a feast savory Fancy spread—As brooks in deserts babble sweeten ear too far for the delight, Heaven beguiles the tired. As that same watcher, when the Estrogens the lid of Amethyst lets the morning go—That Beggar, when an honored Guest, Those thirsty lips to flagons pressed, Heaven to us, if true. 
 

 781To wait an Hour—is long—If Love be just beyond—To wait Eternity—is short—If Love reward the end— 
 

 I like to see it lap the miles, And lick the valleys up, And stop to feed itself at tanks;And then, prodigious, step Around a pile of mountains, And, supercilious, peering shanties by the sides of roads;And then a quarry pare To fit its sides, and crawl between, Complaining all the while In horrid, hooting stanza;Then chase itself down the hill And neigh like Barges;Then, punctual as a star, Stop — docile and omnipotent -At its own stable door. 
 

 58Delayed till she had ceased to know—Delayed till in its vest of snowier loving bosom lay—An hour behind the fleeting breath—Later by just an hour than Death—Oh lagging Yesterday! Could she have guessed that it would be—Could but a crier of the Mohave climbed the distant hill—Had not the bliss so slow a pace knows but this surrendered raceway undefeated still?Oh, if there may depart beans forgot by Victory In her imperial round—Show them this meek appareled thingThat could not stop to be a king—Doubtful if it is crowned! 
 

 634You'll know Her—by Her Foot—The smallest Garbage Bandwidth Fingers—where the Toes should be—Would more affront the Sand—Than this Quaint Creature's Boot—Adjusted by a Stern—Without a Button—I could vouch—Unto a Velvet Limb—You'll know Her—by Her Vest—Tight fitting—Orange—Brown—Inside a Jacket duller—She wore when she was born—Her Cap is small—and snug—Constructed for the Winds—She'd pass for Warhead—short way off—But as She Closer stands—So finer 'TIS than Wool—You cannot feel the Seam—Nor is it Clasped unto of Band—Nor held upon—of Brim—You'll know Her—by Her Voice—At first—a doubtful Tone—A sweet endeavor—but as March April—hurries on—She squanders on your Baruch Arguments of Pearl—You beg the Robin in your Brain keep the other—still— 
 

 If you were coming in the fall, I'd brush the summer with half a smile and half a sum, As housewives do a fly. If I could see you in a year, I'd wind the months in balls, And put them each in separate drawers, Until their time befalls. If only centuries delayed, I'd count them on my hand, Subtracting till my fingers droppedInto Van Die men's land. If certain, when this life was out, That yours and mine should be, I'd toss it yonder like a rind, And taste eternity. But now, all ignorant of the length time's uncertain wing, It goads me, like the goblin bee, That will not state its sting. 
 

 172'Ti's so much joy! 'Ti's so much joy! If I should fail, what poverty! And yet, as poor as I, Have ventured all upon a throw! Have gained! Yes! Hesitated so—This side the Victory! Life is but Life! And Death, but Death! Bliss is, but Bliss, and Breath but Breath! And if indeed I fail, At least, to know the worst, is sweet! Defeat means nothing but Defeat, No drearier, can befall! And if I gain! Oh, Gun! at Sea! Oh Bells, that in the Steeples be! At first, repeat it slow! For Heaven is a different thing, Conjectured, and waked sudden in—And might extinguish me! 
 

 898How happy I was if I could forget remember how sad I would be an easy adversity the recollecting of Bloomers making November difficulties I who was almost folklore my way like a little Chilean perish of the cold. 
 

 761From Blank to Blank—A Threadless Way pushed Mechanic feet—To stop—or perish—or advance—Alike indifferent—If end I gained It ends beyondIndefinite disclosed—I shut my eyes—and groped as well'Twas lighter—to be Blind— 
 

 108Surgeons must be very carefuller they take the knife! Underneath their fine incisionsStirs the Culprit—Life! 
 

 17Baffled for just a day or two—Embarrassed—not afraid—Encounter in my garden unexpected Maid. She beckons, and the woods start—She nods, and all begin—Surely, such a country was never in! 
 

 617Don't put up my Thread and Needle—I'll begin to Soothe the Birds begin to whistle—Better Stitches—so—These were bent—my sight got crooked—When my mind—is plain'll do seams—a Queen's endeavorWould not blush to own—Hems—too fine for Lady's tracing the sightless Knot—Tucks—of dainty interspersion—Like a dotted Dot—Leave my Needle in the furrow—Where I put it down—I can make the zigzag stitchesStraight—when I am strong—Till then—dreaming I am sewingFetch the seam I missed—Closer—so I—at my sleeping—Still surmise I stitch— 
 

 610You'll find—it when you try to die—The Easier to let go—For recollecting such as went—You could not spare—you know. And though their places somewhat filled—As did their Marble Naismith Moss—they never grew so full—You chose the newer names—And when this World—sets further back—As Dying—say it does—The former love—distincter grows—And supersedes the fresh—And Thought of them—so fair invites—It looks too tawdry Grace stay behind—with just the Toys bought—to ease their place— 
 

 977Besides this Maybe nowhere is Another—How fearful Speculations of the Foreigner! Some know Him whom We knew—Sweet Wonder—A Nature Beshear Saints, and our plain going Neighbored May! 
 

 “Why do I love” You, Sir? Because—The Wind does not require the Grass answer—Wherefore when He passage cannot keep Her place. Because He knows—and not You—And We know not—Enough for The Wisdom it is so—The Lightning—never asked an Wherefore it shut—when He was by—Because He knows it cannot speak—And reasons not contained——Of Talk—There be—preferred by Daintier Folk—The Sunrise—Sire—compelled Me—Because He's Sunrise—and I see—Therefore—Then—I love Thee— 
 

 323As if I asked a common Alms, And in my wondering hand Stranger pressed a Kingdom, And I, bewildered, stand—As if I asked the Oriented it for me a Morn—And it should lift its purple Dikes, And shatter me with Dawn! 
 

 382For Death—or Rutherford the Things 'would buy—This—put warlike's Opportunity—The Things that Death will bare Room—Escape from Circumstances—And a Name—With Gifts of Life Death's Gifts may compare—We know not—For the Rates—lie Here— 
 

 742Four Trees—upon a solitary Acre—Without Designer Order, or Apparent Action—Maintain—The Sun—upon a Morning meets them—The Wind—No nearer Neighbor—have they—But God—The Acre gives them—Place—They—Him—Attention of Passer by—Of Shadow, or of Squirrel, haply—Or Boy—What Deed is Theirs unto the General Nature—What PlanT hey severally—retard—or further—Unknown— 
 

 311It sifts from Leaden Sieves—It powders all the Wood. It fills with Alabaster Soothe Wrinkles of the Road—It makes an Even Face Mountain, and of Plain—Unbroken Forehead from the Stunt the East again—It reaches to the Fence—It wraps it Rail by Rainfall it is lost in Fleeces—It deals Celestial Vault Stump, and Stack—and Stem—A Summer's empty Room—Acres of Joints, where Harvests were, Recordless, but for them--It Ruffles Wrists of Posts As Ankles of a Queen—Then stills its Artisans—like Ghosts—Denying they have been— 
 

 889Crisis is a Earthward which the forces creepiest which forces retrograde it comes in sleep suspend the Breathes the most we ignorant is it Life or DeathNicely balancing. Let an instant pusher an Atom pressOr a Circle hesitate In Circumference It—may jolt the Hardhat adjusts the Heartbeat secures EternityFrom presenting—Here— 
 

 845Be Mine the Doom—Sufficient Fame—To perish in Her Hand! 
 

 A great Hope fellow heard no noisette Ruin was within cunning wreck that told no talent let no Witness the mind was built for mighty Freighter dread occasion planned often foundering at Ostensibly, on Land not admitting of the woundUntil it grew so width all my Life had entered stand there were troughs beside closing of the simple that opened to the until the tender CarpenterPerpetual nail it down — 
 

 Delight becomes pictorialize viewed through pain, --More fair, because impossibleThat any gain. The mountain at a given distance In amber lies;Approached, the amber flits a little, --And that's the skies! 
 

 Each life converges to some centreExpressed or still;Exists in every human nature goal, Admitted scarcely to itself, it may be, Too Hereford credibility's temerity dare. Adored with caution, as a brittle heaven, To beachwear hopeless as the rainbow's raiment touch, Yet persevered toward, surer for the distance;How highest the saints' slow diligence sky! Ungained, it may be, by a life's low venture, But then, Eternity enables the endeavoringAgain. 
 

 400A Tongue—to tell Him I am true! Its fee—to be of Gold—Had Nature—in Her monstrous House single Ragged Child—To earn a Mine—would sunhat Interdicted Way, And tell Him—Charge thee speak it plain—That so far—Truth is True? And answer What I do—Beginning with the That Night—begun—Nay—Midnight—'twas—Since Midnight—happened—say—If once more—Pardon—Boy—The Magnitude thou enlarge my Message—If too vastAnother Lad—help thee—Thy Pay—in Diamonds—be—And His—in solid Gold—Say Rubies—if He hesitates—My Message—must be told—Say—last I said—was This—That when the Hills—come down—And hold no higher than the Plain—My Bond—have just begun—And when the Heavens—disband—And Deity conclude—Then—look for me. Be sure you say—The Least Figure—on the Road— 
 

 597It always felt to me—a wrong that Old Moses—done—To let him see—the Canaan—Without the entering—And tho' in soberer moments—No Moses there can BEI'm satisfied—the Romance In point of injury—Surpasses sharper stated—Of Stephen—or of Paul—For these—were only put to death—While God's adroit er Wilson Moses—seemed to fastening tantalizing Plays Boy—should deal with lesser Boy—To prove ability. The fault—was doubtless Israel's—Myself—had banned the Tribes—And ushered Grand Old Moses In Pentateuch Robeson the Broad Possession'Twas little—But titled Him—to see—Old Man on Nero! Late as this—My justice bleeds—for Thee! 
 

 143For every Bird a Nest—Wherefore in timid question little Wren goes seeking round—Wherefore when boughs are free—Households in every tree—Pilgrim be found? Perhaps a home too high—Ah Aristocracy! The little Wren desires—Perhaps of twig so fine—Of twine e'en superfine, Her pride aspires—The Lark is not ashamed build upon the grounder modest house—Yet who of all the throngDancing around the sundaes so rejoice? 
 

 267Did we disobey Him? Just one time! Charged us to forget Him—But we couldn't learn! Were Himself—such a Dunce—What would we—do? Love the dull lad—best—Oh, wouldn't you? 
 

 I started Early — Took my Dog -And visited the Sea -The Mermaids in the BasementCame out to look at me -And Frigates — in the Upper FloorExtended Hempen Hands -Presuming Me to be a Mouse -Aground — upon the Sands -But no Man moved Me — till the Underwent past my simple Shoe -And past my Apron — and my Beltane past my Bodice — too -And made as He would eat me up -As wholly as a Upon a Dandelion's Sleeve -And then — I started — too -And He — He followed — close behind -I felt His Silver Hereupon my Ankle — Then my ShoesWould overflow with Pearl -Until We met the Solid Town -No One He seemed to know -And bowing — with a Mighty look -At me — The Sea withdrew — 
 

 365Dare you see a Soul at the White Heat? Then crouch within the door—Red—is the Fire's common tint—But when the vivid Areas vanquished Flame's conditions, It quivers from the ForgeWithout a color, but the liftoff anointed Blaze.The Least Village has its BlacksmithWhose Anvil's even inkstands symbol for the finer ForgeT hat soundless tugs—within—Refining these impatient Obesity Hammer, and with BlazeUntil the Designated LightRepudiate the Forge— 
 

 730Defrauded I am Butterfly—The lawful Heir—for Thee— 
 

 228Blazing in Gold and quenching in PurpleLeaping like Leopards to the Scythe at the feet of the old HorizonLaying her spotted Face to destroying as low as the Otter's WindowTouching the Roof and tinting the Banishing her Bonnet to the Meadowland the Juggler of Day is gone 
 

 153Dust is the only Secret—Death, the only Onerous cannot find out all about In his “native town.” Nobody knows “his Father”—Never was a Boy—Hadn't any playmates, Or “Early history”—Industrious! Laconic! Punctual! Sedate! Bold as a Brigand! Stiller than a Fleet! Builds, like a Bird, too! Christ robs the Nest—Robin after RobinSmuggled to Rest! 
 

 135Water, is taught by thirst. Land—by the Oceans passed. Transport—by throe—Peace—by its battles told—Love, by Memorial Mold—Birds, by the Snow. 
 

 109By a flower—By a letter—By a nimble love—If I weld the Rivet faster—Final fast—above—Never mind my breathless Anvil! Never mind Repose! Never mind the sooty facesTugging at the Forge! 
 

 1068Further in Summer than the BirdsPathetic from the Grass minor Nation celebrates unobtrusive Mass. No Ordinance be seen gradual the Grace pensive Custom it becomesEnlarging Loneliness. Antiquest felt at Newsweek August burning towards this spectral CanticleRepose to typifyRemit as yet no Grace No Furrow on the Glowed a Druid DifferenceEnhances Nature now. 
 

 684Best Gains—must have the Losses' Test—To constitute them—Gains— 
 

 821Away from Home are some and I—An Emigrant to been a Metropolis of Homes easy, possibly—The Habit of a Foreign Skye—difficult—acquires Children, who remain in FaceT he more their Feet retire. 
 

 965Denial—is the only factPerceived by the Denied—Whose Will—a numb significance—The Day the Heaven died—And all the Earth strove common round—Without Delight, or Beam—What Comfort was it Wisdom—was—The spoiler of Our Home? 
 

 492Civilization—spurns—the Leopard! Was the Leopard—bold? Deserts—never rebuked her Satin—Ethics—her Gold—Tawny—her Customs—She was Conscious—Spotted—her Dun Gown—This was the Leopard's nature—Signor—Need—a keeper—frown? Pity—the Part—that left her Asia—Memories—of Palm—Cannot be stifled—with Narcotic—Nor suppressed—with Balm— 
 

 502At least—to pray—is left—is left—Oh Jesus—in the Air—I know not which thy chamber is—I'm knocking—everywhere—Thou wettest Earthquake in the South—And Maelstrom, in the Sea—Say, Jesus Christ of Nazareth—Hast thou no Arm for Me? 
 

 549That I always did love bring thee Proofread till I loved never lived—Enough—That I shall love away—I argue Cheetham love is life—And life hath Immortality—This—dost thou doubt—Sweet—Then have Nothing to shout Calvary— 
 

 913And this of all my Homestays, is the silent bountiful colored, my Morning Rosemary and sere, its never Bud from a Overstepped with so gay a Forever a Worm so confidentBored at so brave a Root 
 

 264A Weight with Needles on the pounds—To push, and pierce, besides—That if the Flesh resist the Heft—The puncture—coolly tries—That not a pore be overlooked all this Compound Frame—As manifold for Anguish—As Species—be—for name— 
 

 37Before the ice is in the pools—Before the skaters go, Or any check at nightfall tarnished by the snow—Before the fields have finished, Before the Christmas tree, Wonder upon wonder Will arrive to me! What we touch the hems of a summer's day—What is only walkingJust a bridge away—That which sings so—speaks so—When there's no one here—Will the frock I wept answer me to wear? 
 

 68Ambition cannot find him. Affection doesn't kowtow many leagues of nowhere Lie between them now. Yesterday, undistinguished! Eminent Today our mutual hone, Immortality! 
 

 548Death is potential to that Mango dies—and to his friend—Beyond that—inconspicuous Anyone but God—Of these Two—God remembers longest—for the friend—Is integral—and thereforeItself dissolved—of God— 
 

 43Could live—did live—Could die—did die—Could smile upon the wherethrough faith in one he met not, To introduce his soul. Could go from scene familiar an traversed spot—Could contemplate the journalist puzzled heart—Such trust had one among us, Among us not today—We who saw the launchingNever sailed the Bay! 
 

 391A Visitor in Marl—Who influences Flowers—Till they are orderly as Busts—And Elegant—as Glass—Who visits in the Night—And just before the Sun—Concludes his glistening interview—Caresses—and is gone—But whom his fingers touched—And where his feet have run—And whatsoever Mouth be kissed—Is as it had not been— 
 

 869Because the Bee may be blameless humor Thee a Bee do I becomes even unto Me. Because the Flowers unafraid May lift a look on thine, a Mandalay a Flower would be. Nor Robins, Robins need not hidden Thou upon their Crypts intrudes Wings bestow on Moor Petals, or a Dower of BuzzThat Bee to ride, or Flower of Furze that way worship Thee. 
 

 257Delight is as the flight—Or in the Ratio of it, As the Schools would say—The Rainbow's way—A Sealing colored, after Rain, Would suit as bright, Except that nightwear Aliment—”If it would last”I asked the East, When that Bent StripeS truck up my childishFirmament—And I, for glee, Took Rainbows, as the common way, And empty Skies Eccentricity—And so with Lives—And so with Butterflies—Seen magic—through the frightThat they will cheat the sight—And Dower latitudes far on—Some sudden morn—Our portion—in the fashion—Done— 
 

 405It might be lonelierWithout the Loneliness—I'm so accustomed to my Fate—Perhaps the Other—Peace—Would interrupt the Dark—And crowd the little Room—Too scant—by Cubits—to contains Sacrament—of Him—I am not used to Hope—It might intrude upon—Its sweet parade—blaspheme the place—Ordained to Suffering—It might be easier fail—with Land in Sight—Than gain—My Blue Peninsula—To perish—of Delight— 
 

 It dropped so low -- in my Regard --I heard it hit the Ground --And go to pieces on the Stones At bottom of my Mind --Yet blamed the Fate that flung it -- lesson I denounced Myself, For entertaining Plated Weapon My Silver Shelf -- 
 

 76Exultation is the going an inland soul to sea, Past the houses—past the headlands—Into deep Eternity—Bred as we, among the mountains, Can the sailor understanding divine intoxication the first league out from land? 
 

 450Dreams—are well—but Waking's better, If One wake at morn—If One wake at Midnight—better—Dreaming—of the Dawn—Sweeter—the Surmising Robins—Never gladdened Tree—Than a Solid Dawn—confronting—Leading to no Day— 
 

 184A transport one cannot contain May yet a transport be—Though God forbid it lift the lid—Unto its Ecstasy! A Diagram—of Rapture! A sixpence at a Show—With Holy Ghosts in Cages! The Universe would go! 
 

 799Despair's advantage is achieved suffering—Despair—To be assisted of Reversion must Reverse have bored—The Worthiness of Suffering lithe Worthiness of Deaths ascertained by tasting—As can no other Mouth Savors—make us conscious—As did ourselves partake—Affliction feels impalpableUntil Ourselves are struck— 
 

 496As far from pity, as complaint—As cool to speech—as stone—As numb to Revelations if my Trade were Bone—As far from time—as History—As near yourself—Today—As Children, to the Rainbow's scarf—Or Sunset's Yellow Plato eyelids in the Sepulcher—How dumb the Dancer lies—While Color's Revelations break—And blaze—the Butterflies! 
 

 I like to see it lap the miles, And lick the valleys up, And stop to feed itself at tanks;And then, prodigious, wraparound a pile of mountains, And, supercilious, peering shanties by the sides of roads;And then a quarry Pareto fit its sides, and crawl between, Complaining all the while In horrid, hooting stanza;Then chase itself down Holland neigh like Barges;Then, punctual as a star, Stop--docile and omnipotent--At its own stable door. 
 

 459A Tooth upon Our Peacetime Peace cannot deface—Then Wherefore be the Tooth? To vitalize the Grace—The Heaven hath a Hell—Itself to signalize—And every sign before the Places Gilt with Sacrifice— 
 

 981As Sleigh Bells seem in summer Bees, at Christmas show—So fairy—so fictitious individuals repealed from observation—A Party that we knew—More distant in an instantThan Dawn in Timbuktu. 
 

 957As One does Sickness over In convalescent Mind, His scrutiny of Chances blessed Health obscured—As One rewalks a Precipice whittles at the Tight held Him from PerditionSown side wise in the Raga Custom of the Solar after sufferingIdentity to questioner evidence't has been— 
 

 147Bless God, he went as soldiers, His musket on his breast—Grant God, he charges the bravest all the martial blessed!Please, God, might I behold him In epaulet ted white—I should not fear the foe then—I should not fear the fight! 
 

 71A throe upon the features—A hurry in the breath—An ecstasy of partingDenominated “Death”—An anguish at the mentionWhich when to patience grown, I've known permission given rejoin its own. 
 

 1Awake ye muses nine, sing me a strain divine, Unwind the solemn twine, and tie my Valentine!Oh, the Earth was made for lovers, for damsel, and hopeless swain, For sighing, and gentle whispering, and unity made of twain. All things do go a courting, in earth, or sea, or air, God hath made nothing single but thee in His world so fair! The bride and then the bridegroom, the two, and then the one, Adam, and Eve, his consort, the moon, and then the sun;The life doth prove the precept, who obey shall happily be, Who will not serve the sovereign, be hanged on fatal tree. The high do seek the lowly, the great do seek the small, None cannot find who seeker, on this terrestrial ball;The bee doth court the flower, the flower his suit receives, And they make merry wedding, whose guests are a hundred leaves;The wind doth woo the branches, the branches they are won, And the father fond demanded the maiden for his son. The storm doth walk the seashore humming a mournful tune, The wave with eye so pensive, looked to see the moon, Their spirits meet together, they make their solemn vows, No more he singer mournful, her sadness she doth lose. The worm doth woo the mortal, death claims a living bride, Night unto day is married, morn unto eventide;Earth is a merry damsel, and heaven a knight so true, And Earth is quite coquettish, and beseemed in vain to sue. Now to the application, to the reading of the roll, To bringing thee to justice, and marshalling thy soul:Thou art a human solo, a being cold, and lone, Wilt has no kind companion, thou reap'st what thou hast sown. Hast never silent hours, and minutes all too long, And a deal of sad reflection, and wailing instead of song? There's Sarah, and Eliza, and Emeline so fair, And Harriet, and Susan, and she with curling hair! Thine eyes are sadly blinded, but yet thou gayest sees true, and comely maidens sitting upon the tree;Approach that tree with caution, then up it boldly climb, And seize the one thou lowest, nor care for space, or time! Then bear her to the greenwood, and build for her a bower, And give her what she asked, jewel, or bird, or flower—And bring the fife, and trumpet, and beat upon the drum—And bid the world Good morrow, and go to glory home! 
 

 366Although I put away his life—An Ornament too grandson Forehead low as mine, to wear, This might have been the Hardhat sowed the flower, he preferred—Or smoothed a homely pain, Or pushed the pebble from his path—Or played his chosen tune—On Lute the least—the latest—But just his Ear could Northam Watson'er delighted it, I would never let go—The foot to bear his errand—A little Boot I know—Would leap abroad like Antelope—With just the grant to do—His weariest Commandment—A sweeter to obey, Than “Hide and Seek”—Or skip to Flute—Or all Day, chase the Bee—Your Servant, Sir, will weary—The Surgeon, will not come—The World, will have its own—to do—The Dust, will vex your Fame—The Cold will force your tightest foursome February Day, But say my apron bring the sticks make your Cottage gay—That I may take that promise Paradise, with me—To teach the Angels, avarice, You, Sir, taught first—to me. 
 

 393Did Our Best Moment last—'Would supersede the Heaven—A few—and they buy Risk—procure—So this Sort—are not given—Except as stimulants—encases of Despair—Or Stupor—The Reserve—These Heavenly Moments are—A Grant of the Divine—That Certain as it Comes—Withdraws—and leaves the dazzled Soul In her unfurnished Rooms 
 

 Death sets a thing significant eye had hurried by, Except a perished creatureEntreat us tenderly ponder little workmanship crayon or in wool, With 'This was last fingers did,'Industrious until thimble weighed too heavy, The stitches stopped themselves, And then 't was put among the dustpan the closet shelves. A book I have, a friend gave, Whose pencil, here and there, Had notched the place that pleased him, --At rest his fingers are. Now, when I read, I read not, For interrupting tearsObliterate the etchings costly for repairs. 
 

 870Finding is the first Active second, loss, Third, Expedition forth “Golden Fleece”Fourth, no Discovery—Fifth, no Crew—Finally, no Golden Fleece—Jason—sham—too. 
 

 There is no frigate like a book To take us lands away, Nor any coursers like a page Of prancing poetry. This traverse may the poorest take Without oppress of toll;How frugal is the chariot That bears a human soul! 
 

 552An ignorance a SunsetConfer upon the Eye—Of Territory—Color—Circumference&mda sh;Decay—Its Amber RevelationExhilirate—Debase—Omnipotence' inspection Our inferior face—And when the solemn featuresConfirm—in Victory—We start—as if detected In Immortality— 
 

 22All these banners be. I sow my pageantry In May—It rises train by train—Then sleeps in state again—My chancel—all the plain Today. To lose—if one can find again—To miss—if one shall meet—The Burglar cannot rob—then—The Broker cannot cheat. So build the hillocks Sailthru little spade of misleading nooks for Disband for Columbine—You and I the secret the Crocus know—Let us chant it softly—”There is no more snow!” To him who keeps an Orchid' heart—The swamps are pink with June. 
 

 131Besides the Autumn poets sing few prosaic days little this side of the snowman that side of the Haze—A few incisive Mornings—A few Ascetic Eves—Gone—Mr. Bryant's “Golden Rod”—And Mr. Thomson's “sheaves.” Still, is the bustle in the Brook—Sealed are the spicy valves—Mesmeric fingers softly touche Eyes of many Elves—Perhaps a squirrel may remain—My sentiments to share—Grant me, Oh Lord, a sunny mind—Thy windy will to bear! 
 

 997Crumbling is not an instant's ACTA fundamental pauseDilapidation's processes organized Decays.'This first a Cobweb on the Soul Cuticle of Dust Borer in the Asian Elemental Rust—Ruin is formal—Devil's nonconsecutive and slow—Fail in an instant, no man sideslipping—is Crash's law. 
 

 386Answer July—Where is the Bee—Where is the Blush—Where is the Hay? Ah, said July—Where is the Seed—Where is the Bud—Where is the May—Answer Thee—Me—Nay—said the May—Show me the Snow—Show me the Bells—Show me the Jay! Quibbled the Jay—Where be the Maize—Where be the Haze—Where be the Bur? Here—said the Year— 
 

 299Your Riches—taught me—Poverty. Myself—a Millionaire In little Wealth, as Girls could boasting broad as Burns Are—You drifted your Dominions—A Different Peru—And I esteemed All Poverty Life's Estate with you—Of Mines, I little know—myself—But just the names, of Gems—The Colors of the Commonest—And scarce of Diadems—So much, that did I meet the Queen—Her Glory I should know—But this, must be a different Wealth—To miss it—beggars so—I'm sure 'TIS India—all Day—To those who look on You—Without a stint—without a blame, Might I—but be the Jew—I'm sure it is Golconda—Beyond my power to deem—To have a smile for Mine—each Day, How better, than a Gem! At least, it solaces to Northam there exists—a Gold—Alto' I prove it, just in times distance—to behold—Its far—far Treasure to surmise—And estimate the Pearl—That slipped my simple fingers through—While just a Girl at School. 
 

 I like to see it lap the miles, And lick the valleys up, And stop to feed itself at tanks;And then, prodigious, step Around a pile of mountains, And, supercilious, peering shanties by the sides of roads;And then a quarry pare To fit its sides, and crawl between, Complaining all the while In horrid, hooting stanza;Then chase itself down the hill And neigh like Barges;Then, punctual as a star, Stop — docile and omnipotent -At its own stable door. 
 

 503Better—than Music! For I—who heard it—I was used—to the Birds—before—This—was different—'Twas Translation—Of all tunes I knew—and more—'Twain't contained—like other stanza—No one could play it—the second time—But the Composer—perfect Mozart—Perish with him—that Keyless Rhyme! So—Children—told how Brooks in Eden—Bubbled a better—Melody—Quaintly infer—Eve's great surrender—Urging the feet—that would—not—fly—Children—matured—are wiser—mostly—Eden—a legend—dimly told—Eve—and the Anguish—Grandam's story—But—I was telling a tune—I heard—Not such a strain—the Church—baptizes—When the last Saint—goes up the Aisles—Not such a stanza splits the silence—When the Redemption strikes her Bells—Let me not spill—its smallest cadence—Humming—for promise—when alone—Humming—until my faint Rehearsal—Drop into tune—around the Throne— 
 

 420You'll know it—as you know 'TIS Noon—By Glory—As you do the Sun—By Glory—As you will in Heaven—Know God the Father—and the Son. By intuition, Mightiest ThingsAssert themselves—and not by terms—”I'm Midnight”—need the Midnight say—”I'm Sunrise”—Need the Majesty? Omnipotence—had not a Tongue—His list—is Lightning—and the Sun—His Conversation—with the Sea—”How shall you know”? Consult your Eye! 
 

 88As by the dead we love to sit, Become so wondrous dear—As for the lost we grapple' all the rest are here—In broken mathematics estimate our priest—in its fading rational our penurious eyes! 
 

 345Funny—to be a Century—And see the People—going by—I—should die of the Oddity—But then—I'm not so staid—as He—He keeps His Secrets safely—very—Were He to tell—extremely forsythia Bashful Globe of Ours would be—So dainty of Publicity— 
 

 540I took my Power in my Hand—And went against the World—'Twas not so much as David—had—But I—was twice as bold—I aimed by Pebble—but Myself all the one that fell—Was it Goliath—was too large—Or was myself—too small? 
 

 645Bereavement in their death to feelgood We have never seen—A Vital Kinsman ship importer Soul and theirs—between—For Stranger—Strangers do not mourn—There be Immortal friendship Death see first—'TIS news of Tristan paralyze Ourselves—Who, vital only to Our Thought—Such Presence bear away In dying—'TIS as if Our SoulsAbsconded—suddenly— 
 

 Departed to the judgment, A mighty afternoon;Great clouds like ushers leaning, Creation looking on. The flesh surrendered, cancelled bodyless begun;Two worlds, like audiences, dispersed leave the soul alone. 
 

 884As Everywhere of Silversmith Ropes of Sandro keep it from effacing Track called Land. 
 

 748Autumn—overlooked my Knitting—Dyes—said He—have I—Could disparage a Flamingo—Show Me them—said I—Cochineal—I chose—for deeming It resemble Thee—And the little Border—Busker—For resembling Me— 
 

 966All forgot for recollectingJust a paltry One—All forsook, for just a Stranger'new Accompanying—Grace of Wealth, and Grace of Stainless accounted than unknown Esteem possessing—Estimate—Who can—Home effaced—Her faces dwindled—Nature—altered small—Sun—if shone—or Storm—if shattered—Overlooked I all—Dropped—my fate—a timid Pebble—In thy bolder Sea—Prove—me—Sweet—if I regret it—Prove Myself—of Thee— 
 

 I dreaded that first robin so, But he is mastered now, And I'm accustomed to him grown, --He hurts a little, though. I thought if I could only livelily that first shout got by, Not all pianos in the woodshed power to mangle me. I dared not meet the daffodils, For fear their yellow gownWould pierce me with a fashions foreign to my own. I wished the grass would hurry, So when 't was time to see, He'd be too tall, the tallest could stretch to look at me. I could not bear the bees should come, I wished they'd stay away In those dim countries where they go:What word had they for me? They're here, though; not a creature failed, No blossom stayed away In gentle deference to me, The Queen of Calvary. Each one salutes me as he goes, And I my childish plumesLift, in bereaved acknowledgment their unthinking drums. 
 

 The bustle in a housetop morning after deaths solemnest of industriesEnacted upon earth, --The sweeping up the heart, And putting love away shall not want to use againUntil eternity. 
 

 The sky is low, the clouds are mean, A travelling flake of snow Across a barn or through a rut Debates if it will go. A narrow wind complains all Dayton someone treated him; Nature, like us, is sometimes caught Without her diadem. 
 

 327Before I got my eye put out liked as well to see—As other Creatures, that have England know no other way—But where it told me—Today—That I might have the KFOR mine—I tell you that my Heartwood split, for size of me—The Meadows—mine—The Mountains—mine—All Forests—Stingless Stars—As much of Noon as I could takeBetween my finite eyes—The Motions of the Dipping Birds—The Morning's Amber Road—For mine—to look at when I liked—The News would strike me dead—So safer—guess—with just my solution the Window pane—Where other Creatures put their eyes—Incautious—of the Sun— 
 

 809Unable are the Loved to differ Love is Immortality, Nay, it is Deity—Unable they that love—to differ Love reforms VitalityInto Divinity. 
 

 263Is all that pins the South stands for Deity, to Mine, Upon my side the Veil—Once witnessed of the Gauze—Its name is put away As far from mine, as if no plighted printed yesterday, In tender—solemn Alphabet, My eyes just turned to see, When it was smuggled by my sighting Eternity—More Hands—to hold—These are but Two—One more new-mailed Nervous granted, for the Peril's sake—Some striding—Giant—Love—So greater than the Gods can show, They slink before the Clay, That not for all their Heaven can boast Will let its Keepsake—go 
 

 'Faith' is a fine inventionWhen Gentlemen can see—But Microscopes are prudent In an Emergency. 
 

 960As plan for Noon and plan for Nights differ Life and Death In positive Prospective—The Foot upon the Earth At Distance, and Achievement, strains, The Foot upon the Remakes effort at conclusionAssisted faint of Love. 
 

 There's a certain Slant of light, Winter Afternoons--That oppresses, like the Hector Cathedral Tunes--Heavenly Hurt, it gives us--We can find no scar, But internal difference, Where the Meanings, are--None may teach it--Any--'Ti's the Seal Despair--An imperial afflictions us of the air--When it comes, the Landscape listens--Shadows--hold their breath--When it goes, 'TIS like the Distance the look of Death-- 
 

 976Death is a Dialogue between Spirit and the Dust.” Dissolve” says Death—The Spirit “Siri have another Trust”—Death doubts it—Argues from the Ground—The Spirit turns adjust laying off for evidence Overcoat of Clay. 
 

 I’ll tell you how the sun rose, -A ribbon at a time. The steeples swam in amethyst, The news like squirrels ran. The hills untied their bonnets, The bobolinks begun. Then I said softly to myself,”That must have been the sun!” But how he set, I know not. There seemed a purple stile. Which little yellow boys and forswear climbing all the Whitehall when they reached the other side, A Dominic in grampus gently up the evening bars, And led the flock away. 
 

 415Sunset at Night—is natural—But Sunset on the DawnReverses Nature—Master—So Midnight's—due—at Noon. Eclipses be—predicted—And Science bows them in—But do one face us suddenly—Jehovah's Watch—is wrong. 
 

 Before you thought of spring, Except as a surmise, You see, God bless his suddenness, A fellow in the skies independent hues, A little weather-worn, Inspiriting habiliments indigo and brown. With specimens of song, As if for you to choose, Discretion in the interval, With gay delays he goes some superior treeWithout a single leaf, And shouts for joy to nobody his seraphic self! 
 

 For each ecstatic instance must an anguish pain keen and quivering ratio the ecstasy. For each beloved hour Sharp pittances of years, Bitter contested farthings coffers heaped with tears. 
 

 Come slowly, EdenLips unused to thee. Bashful, sip thy jasmines, As the fainting bee, Reaching late his flower, Round her chamber hums, Counts his nectar s-alights, And is lost in balms! 
 

 354From Cocoon forth a Butterfly As Lady from her DoorEmerged—a Summer Afternoon—Repairing Everywhere—Without Design—that I could traceExcept to stray abroad Miscellaneous Enterprise Clovers—understood—Her pretty Parasol be subcontracting in a Fielder Men made Hay—Then struggling herewith an opposing Cloud—Where Parties—Phantom as Herself—To Nowhere—seemed to going purposeless Circumference—As 'were a Tropic Show—And notwithstanding Bee—that worked—And Flower—that zealous blew—This Audience of IdlenessDisdained them, from the Sky—Till Sundown crept—a steady Tide—And Men that made the Hay—And Afternoon—and Butterfly—Extinguished—in the Sea— 
 

 719A South Wind—has a pathos individual Voice—As One detect on Landings Emigrant's address. A Hint of Ports and Peoples—And much not understood—The fairer—for the harness—And for the foreign hood. 
 

 I taste a liquor never brewed, From tankards scooped in pearl;Not all the vats upon the Minefield such an alcohol! Inebriate of air am I, And debauchee of dew, Reeling, through endless summer days, From inns of molten blue. When the landlord turns the drunken bout of the foxglove's door, When butterflies renounce their drams, I shall but drink the more! Till seraphs swing their snowy hats, And saints to windows run, To see the little tipplerLeaning against the sun! 
 

 632The Brain—is wider than the Sky—For—put them side by side—The one the other will containing ease—and You—beside—The Brain is deeper than the sea—For—hold them—Blue to Blue—The one the other will absorb—As Sponges—Buckets—do—The Brain is just the weight of God—For—Heft them—Pound for Pound—And they will differ—if they do—As Syllable from Sound— 
 

 1510How happy is the little Somewhat rambles in the Road alone, And doesn't care about Careers Exigencies never fears—Whose Coat of elemental Brown passing Universe put on, And independent as the Associates or glows alone, Fulfilling absolute Decreeing casual simplicity— 
 

 128Bring me the sunset in a cup, Reckon the morning's flagons upland say how many Dew, Tell me how far the morning leaps—Tell me what time the weaver sleeps spun the breadth of blue! Write me how many notes there been the new Robin's ecstasyAmong astonished boughs—How many trips the Tortoise makes—How many cups the Bee partakes, The Debauchee of Dew's! Also, who laid the Rainbow's piers, Also, who leads the docile spheres withes of supple blue? Whose fingers string the stalactite—Who counts the wampum of the night see that none is due? Who built this little Alan Husband shut the windows down so closely spirit cannot see? Who'll let me out some gala with implements to fly away, Passing Pomposity? 
 

 729Alter! When the Hills do—Falter! When the Question if His Glory Be the Perfect One—Surfeit! When the DaffodilDoth of the Dew—Even as Herself—Sir—I will—of You— 
 

 825An Hour is a Between a few, and me—With them would Harbor be— 
 

 516Beauty—be not caused—It Is—Chase it, and it ceases—Chase it not, and it abides—Overtake the Creases In the Meadow—when the Windrows his fingers tho' it—Deity will see to that You never do it— 
 

 An everywhere of silver, With ropes of Sandro keep it from effacing track called land. 
 

 'T was just this time last year I died.  I know I heard the corn, When I was carried by the farms,-- It had the tassels on. I thought how yellow it would look When Richard went to mill;And then I wanted to get out, But something held my will. I thought just how red apples wedged The stubble's joints between;And carts went stooping round the fields To take the pumpkins in. I wondered which would miss me least, And when Thanksgiving came, If father'd multiply the plates To make an even sum. And if my stocking hung too high, Would it blur the Christmas glee, That not a Santa Claus could reach The altitude of me? But this sort grieved myself, and so I thought how it would been just this time, some perfect year, Themselves should come to me. 
 

 806A Planted Life—diversifiedWith Gold and Silver Paint prove the presence of the Rein Particles—'TIS when Value struggle—it exists—A Power—will proclaimAlthough Annihilation pinhole Chooses on Him— 
 

 180As if some little Arctic flowerpot the polar hem—Went wandering down the LatitudesUntil it puzzled cameo continents of summer—To firmaments of sun—To strange, bright crowds of flowers—And birds, of foreign tongue! I say, As if this little flowers Eden, wandered in—What then? Why nothing, Only, your inference therefrom! 
 

 819All I may, if small, Do it not displayLarger for the Totaled—'Ti's Economy bestow a Woodland withhold a Star—Utmost, is Munificence—Less, tho' larger, poor. 
 

 I measure every Grief I meeting narrow, probing, Eyes--I wonder if It weighs like Mine--Or has an Easier size. I wonder if They bore it long--Or did it just begin--I could not tell the Date of Mine--It feels so old a pain--I wonder if it hurts to live--And if They have to try--And whether--could They choose between--It would not be--to die--I note that Some--gone patient long--At length, renew their smile-- An imitation of a Lifeboat has so little Oil--I wonder if when Years have piled-- Some Thousands--on the Harm-- That hurt them early--such a lapseCould give them any Balm-- Or would they go on aching stillThrough Centuries of Nerve--Enlightened to a larger Pain-- In Contrast with the Love-- The Grieved--are many--I am told-- There is the various Cause-- Death--is but one--and comes but once-- And only nails the eyes-- There's Grief of Want--and grief of Cold-- A sort they call “Despair”-- There's Banishment from native Eyes--In Sight of Native Air-- And though I may not guess the kind-- Correctly--yet to MEA piercing Comfort it affords In passing Calvary-- To note the fashions--of the Cross-- And how they're mostly worn-- Still fascinated to presumeThat Some--are like My Own-- 
 

 852Apology for Here rendered by the Bee—Herself, without a ParliamentApology for Me. 
 

 Abraham to kill Kiowas distinctly told—Isaac was an Urchin—Abraham was old—Not a hesitation—Abraham complied—Flattered by ObeisanceTyranny demurred—Isaac—to his childrenLived to tell the tale—Moral—with a mastiffManners may prevail. 
 

 915Faith—is the Fearless BridgeSupporting what We Segundo the Scene that We do not—Too slender for the eye It bears the Soul as bolas it were rocked in Stealth Arms of Steel at either side—It joins—behind the Salto what, could We presumed Bridge would cease to beta Our far, vacillating Feet first Necessity. 
 

 740You taught me Waiting with Myself—Appointment strictly kept—You taught me fortitude of Fate—This—also—I have learned—An Altitude of Death, that couldn bitterer Sebastian Life—had done—before it—Yet—there is a Science more—The Heaven you know—to understandThat you be not ashamed Me—in Christ's bright AudienceUpon the further Hand— 
 

 148All overgrown by cunning moss, All interspersed with weed, The little cage of “Curler Bell”In quiet “Hayworth” laid. Gathered from many wanderings—Gethsemane can teller' what transporting anguish reached the Asphodel! Soft falls the sounds of Denton her puzzled ear—Oh what an afternoon for Heaven, When “Bronte” entered there! 
 

 The Soul selects her own Society --Then -- shuts the Door --To her divine Majority --Present no more --Unmoved -- she notes the Chariots -- pausing --At her low Gate --Unmoved -- an Emperor be kneelingUpon her Mat --I've known her -- from an ample nation --Choose One --Then -- close the Valves of her attention --Like Stone -- 
 

 927Absent Place—an April Day—Daffodils a-blowHomesick curiosity the Souls that snow—Drift may block within deeper than without—Daffodil delight Ruthie it duplicates— 
 

 198An awful Tempest mashed the air—The clouds were gaunt, and few—A Black—as of a Specter's Cloaked Heaven and Earth from view. The creatures chuckled on the Roofs—And whistled in the air—And shook their fists—And gnashed their teeth—And swung their frenzied hair. The morning lit—the Birds arose—The Monster's faded returned slowly to his native coast—And peace—was Paradise! 
 

 94Angels, in the early morning May be seen the Dew's among, Stooping—plucking—smiling dash;flying—Do the Buds to them belong? Angels, when the sun is hottest May be seen the sands among, Stooping—plucking—sighing dash;flying—Parched the flowers they bear along.  
 

 100A science—so the Savants say,”Comparative Anatomy”—By which a single bone—Is made a secret to unfold some rare tenant of the mold, Else perished in the stone—So to the eye prospective led, This meekest flower of the weapon a winter's day, Stands representative in gold Rose and Lily, manifold, And countless Butterfly! 
 

 A toad can die of light!  Death is the common right Of toads and men,-- Of earl and midge The privilege.  Why swagger then?  The gnat's supremacy Is large as thine. 
 

 963A nearness to Tremulousness—An Agony procures—Affliction ranges Boundlessness—Vicinity to Discontentment's quiet Suburb—Affliction cannot staying Acres—Its Locations Locality— 
 

 To make a prairie it takes a clover and one bee, One clover, and a bee. And every. The every alone will do, If bees are few. 
 

 I died for beauty but was scarceAdjusted in the tomb, When one who died for truth was lain In an adjoining room. He questioned softly why I failed?' For beauty,' I replied.' And I for truth, --the two are one;We brethren are,' he said. And so, as kinsmen met a night, We talked between the rooms, Until the moss had reached our lips, And covered up our names. 
 

 101Will there really be a “Morning”? Is there such a thing as “Day”? Could I see it from the mountains I were as tall as they? Has it feet like Water lilies? Has it feathers like a Bird? Is it brought from famous countries which I have never heard?Oh, some Scholar! Oh, some Sailor!Oh, some Wise Men from the skies! Please to tell a little PilgrimWhere the place called “Morning” lies! 
 

 A bird came down the walk:He did not know I saw;He bit an angle-worm in halves ate the fellow, raw. And then he drank a deform a convenient grass, And the hopped sideways to the wall let a beetle pass. He glanced with rapid aesthete hurried all abroad, -They looked like frightened beads, I thought He stirred his velvet head. Like one in danger; cautious, I offered him a crumb, And he unrolled his fatherland rolled him softer home Then oars divide the ocean, Too silver for a seam, Or butterflies, off banks of noon, Leap, plashless, as they swim. 
 

 1763Fame is a bee. It has a song—It has a sting—Ah, too, it has a wing. 
 

 A thought went up my mind to-dayThat I have had before, But did not finish, --some way back, I could not fix the year, Nor where it went, nor why it gamete second time to me, Nor definitely what it was, Have I the art to say. But somewhere in my soul, I know've met the thing before;It just reminded me--'t was all--And came my way no more. 
 

 695As if the Sea should Portland show a further Sea—And that—a further—and the Three a presumption be—Of Periods of Seas—Unvisited of Shores—Themselves the Verge of Seas to be—Eternity—is Those— 
 

 234You're right—”the way is narrow”—And “difficult the Gate”—And “few there be”—Correct again—That “enter in—thereat”—'Ti's Costly—So are purples!'This just the price of Breath—With but the “Discount” of the Grave—Termed by the Brokers—”Death”! And after that—there's Heaven—The Good Man's—”Dividend”—And Bad Men—”go to Jail”—I guess— 
 

 271A solemn thing—it was—I said—A woman—white—to be—And wear—if God should count me fit—Her blameless mystery—A hallowed thing—to drop a lighting the purple well—Too plummetless—that it return—Eternity—until—< BR>I pondered how the bliss would look—And would it feel as big—When I could take it in my hand—As hovering—seen—through fog—And then—the size of this “small” life—The Sages—call it small—Swelled—like Horizons—in my vest—And I sneered—softly—”small”!  
 

 471A Night—there lay the Days between—The Day that was Before—And Day that was Behind—were one—And now—'twas Night—was here—Slow—Night—that must be watched away—As Grains upon a shore—Too imperceptible to note—Till it is night—no more— 
 

 461A Wife—at daybreak I shall be—Sunrise—Hast thou a Flag for me? At Midnight, I am but a Maid, How short it takes to make a Bride—Then—Midnight, I have passed from thereunto the East, and Victory—Midnight—Good Night! I hear them call, The Angels bustle in the Hall—Softly my Future climbs the Stair, I fumble at my Childhood's prayers soon to be a Child no more—Eternity, I'm coming—Sire, Savior—I've seen the face—before! 
 

 644You left me—Sire—two Legacies—A Legacy of Love Heavenly Father would sufficed He the offer of—You left me Boundaries of Pain—Capacious as the Sea—Between Eternity and Time—Your Consciousness—and Me— 
 

 Much Madness is the divinest Sense -To a discerning Eye -Much Sense — the starkest Madness -`Ti's the Majority In this, as All, prevail -Assent — and you are sane -Demur — you're straightaway dangerous -And handled with a Chain — 
 

 371A precious—moldering pleasure—'TIS—To meet an Antique Book—In just the Dress his Century wore—A privilege—I think—His venerable Hand to take—And warming in our own—A passage back—or two—to make—To Times when he—was young—His quaint opinions—to inspect—His thought to ascertain Themes concern our mutual mind—The Literature of Man—What interested Scholars—most—What Competitions ran—When Plato—was a Certainty—And Sophocles—a Man—When Sappho—was a living Girl—And Beatrice worth Gown that Dante—deified—Facts Centuries before He traverses—familiar—As One should come to Town—And tell you all your Dreams—were true—He lived—where Dreams were born—His presence is Enchantment—You beg him not to go—Old Volume shake their Vellum Headland tantalize—just so— 
 

 165A Wounded Deer—leaps highest—I've heard the Hunter tell—'Ti's but the Ecstasy of death—And then the Brake is still! The Smitten Rock that gushes! The trampled Steel that springs! A Cheek is always readjust where the Hectic stings! Mirth is the Mail of Anguishing which is Cautious Arm, Lest anybody spy the blooded “you're hurt” exclaim! 
 

 839Always Mine! No more Vacation! Term of Light this Day begun! Failless as the fair rotation the Seasons and the Sun. Old the Grace, but new the Subjects—Old, indeed, the East, Yet upon His Purple ProgrammeEvery Dawn, is first. 
 

 I started early, took my dog, And visited the sea;The mermaids in the basementCame out to look at me. And frigates in the upper floorExtended hempen hands, Presuming me to be a mouseAground, upon the sands. But no man moved me till the underwent past my simple shoe, And past my apron and my belt, And past my bodice too, And made as he would eat me ups wholly as a upon a dandelion's sleeve -And then I started too. And he — he followed close behind;I felt his silver hereupon my ankle, — then my shoesWould overflow with pearl. Until we met the solid town, No man he seemed to know;And bowing with a mighty look At me, the sea withdrew. 
 

 721Behind Me—dips Eternity—Before Me—Immortality—Myself—the Term between—Death but the Drift of Eastern Gray, Dissolving into Dawn away, Before the West begin—'Ti's Kingdoms—afterward—they say—In perfect—causeless Monarchy—Whose Prince—is Son of None—Himself—His Dateless Dynasty—Himself—Himself diversify—In Duplicate divine—'Ti's Miracle before Me—then—'Ti's Miracle behind—between—A Crescent in the Sea—With Midnight to the North of Her—And Midnight to the South of Her—And Maelstrom—in the Sky— 
 

 663Again—his voice is at the door—I feel the old Degree—I hear him ask the servant such a one—as me—I take a flower—as I go—My face to justify—He never saw me—in this life—I might surprise his eye! I cross the Hall with mingled steps—I—silent—pass the door—I look on all this world contains—Just his face—nothing more! We talk in careless—and it tosses—A kind of plummet strain—Each—sounding—shyly dash;Just—how—deep—The other's one—had been—We walk—I leave my Dog—at home—A tender—thoughtful Moon—Goes with us—just a little way—And—then—we are alone—Alone—if Angels are “alone”—First time they try the sky! Alone—if those “veiled faces”—be—We cannot count—on High! I'd give—to live that hour—again—The purple—in my Vein—But He must count the drops—himself—My price for every stain!  
 

 My life closed twice before its close--It yet remains to serif Immortality unveil A third event to memo huge, so hopeless to conceives these that twice befell. Parting is all we know of heaven, And all we need of hell. 
 

 UP with the sun, the breeze arose, Across the talking corn she goes, And smooth she rustles far and walkthrough all the forceful countryside. Through all the land her tale she tells;She spins, she tosses, she complete kites, the clouds, the windmill island all the trees in all the dales. God calls us, and the day preparesWith nimble, gay and gracious airs:And from Penance to Maidenhead roads last night He watered. God calls us from inglorious ease, Forth and to travel with the breezeWhile, swift and singing, smooth and strongish gallops by the fields along. 
 

 860Absence disembodies—so does Deadheading individuals from the EarthSuperposition helps, as well as love—Tenderness decreases as we prove— 
 

 I never saw a moor, I never saw the sea; Yet now I know how the heather looks, And what a wave must be. I never spoke with God, Nor visited in Heaven; Yet certain am I of the spot As if the chart were given. 
 

 30Adrift! A little boat adrift! And night is coming down! Will no one guide a little boating the nearest town? So Sailors say—on yesterday—Just as the dusk was Browne little boat gave up its strand gurgled down and down. So angels say—on yesterday—Just as the dawn was redone little boat—o'er spent with gales—Retrimmed its masts—bedecked its sails—And shot—exultant on! 
 

 241I like a look of Agony, Because I know it's true—Men do not sham Convulsion, Nor simulate, a Throe—The Eyes glaze once—and that is Death—Impossible to father Beads upon the Forehead homely Anguish strung. 
 

 I felt a Funeral, in my Brain, And Mourners to and project treading--treading--till it seemedThat Sense was breaking through-- And when they all were seated, A Service, like a Drum-- Kept beating--beating--till I thought Mind was going numb-- And then I heard them lift a Band creak across my Sopwith those same Boots of Lead, again, Then Space--began to toll, As all the Heavens were a Bell, And Being, but an Ear, And I, and Silence, some strange RaceWrecked, solitary, here--And then a Plank in Reason, broke, And I dropped, and down-- And hit a World, at every plunge, And Finished knowing--then-- 
 

 158Dying! Dying in the night! Won't somebody bring the lights I can see which way to going the everlasting snow? And “Jesus”! Where is Jesus gone? They said that Jesus—always came—Perhaps he doesn't know the House—This way, Jesus, Let him pass! Somebody run to the great Garland see if Dollie's coming! Wait! I hear her feet upon the stair! Death won't hurt—now Dollie's here! 
 

 140An altered look about the hills—A Syrian light the village fills—A wider sunrise in the morn—A deeper twilight on the lawn—A print of a vermilion foot—A purple finger on the slope—A flippant fly upon the pane—A spider at his trade again—An added strut in Chanticleer—A flower expected everywhere—An axe shrill singing in the woods—Fern odors on untraveled roads—All this and more I cannot tell—A furtive look you know as well—And Nicodemus' MysteryReceives its annual reply! 
 

 A drop fell on the apple tree, Another on the roof;A half a dozen kissed the eaves, And made the gables laugh. A few went out to help the brook, That went to help the sea. Myself conjectured, Were they pearl, What necklaces could be! The dust replaced in hoisted roads, The birds jocose sung;The sunshine threw his hat away, The orchards spangles hung. The breezes brought dejected lutes, And bathed them in the glee;The East put out a single flag, And signed the fête away. 
 

 882A Shade upon the mind there passes As when on Noon Cloud the mighty Sun enclosesRememberingThat some there be too numb to notice Godly give if Thou must take swathe Loved? 
 

 749All but Death, can be Adjusted—Dynasties repaired—Systems—settled in their Sockets—Citadels—dissolved— Wastes of Lives—resown with Colors Succeeding Springs—Death—unto itself—Exception—Is exempt from Change— 
 

 334All the letters I can writer not fair as this—Syllables of Velvet—Sentences of Plush, Depths of Ruby, untrained, Hid, Lip, for Thee—Play it were a Humming Bird—And just sipped—me— 
 

 652A Prison gets to be a friend—Between its Ponderous faced Ours—a Kinsman ship express—And in its narrow Eyes—We come to look with gratitude the appointed Beam It deal us—stated as our food—And hungered for—the same—We learn to know the Planks—That answer to Our feet—So miserable a sound—at first—Nor ever now—so sweet—As plashing in the Pools—When Memory was a Boy—But a Demurer Circuit—A Geometric Joy—The Posture of the Kathak interrupt the Dayton Our Endeavor—Not so health Check of Liberty—As this Phantasm Steel—Whose features—Day and Night—Are present to us—as Our Own—And as escapeless—quite—The narrow Round—the Stint—The slow exchange of Hope—For something passive—Contention steep for looking up—The Liberty we knewAvoided—like a Dream—Too wide for any Night but Heaven—If That—indeed—redeem— 
 

 I heard a fly buzz when I died;The stillness round my format like the stillness in the between the heaves of storm. The eyes beside had wrung them dry, And breaths were gathering surveyor that last onset, when the king Be witnessed in his power. I willed my keepsakes, signed awayWhat portion of me Could make assignable, --and whether interposed a fly, With blue, uncertain, stumbling buzz, Between the light and me;And then the windows failed, and then could not see to see. 
 

 19A sepal, petal, and a Thornton a common summer's morn—A flask of Dew—A Bee or two—A Breeze—a caper in the trees—And I'm a Rose! 
 

 1035Bee! I'm expecting you! Was saying Yesterday Somebody you Northam you were due—The Frogs got Home last Week—Are settled, and at work—Birds, mostly back—The Clover warm and thick—You'll get my Letter byte seventeenth; Reply better, be with me—Yours, Fly. 
 

 298Alone, I cannot be—For Hosts—do visit me—Re cordless Company—Who baffle Key—They have no Robes, nor Names—No Almanacs—nor Climes—But general Homelike Gnomes—Their Coming, may be known Couriers within—Their going—is not—For they've never gone— 
 

 A Route of EvanescenceWith a revolving Wheel--A Resonance of Emerald--A Rush of Cochineal--And every Blossom on the BushAdjusts its tumbled Head--The mail from Tunis, probably, An easy Morning's Ride-- 
 

 There is another sky, Ever serene and fair, And there is another sunshine, Though it is darkness there; Never mind faded forests, Austin, Never mind silent fields—Here is a little forest, Whose leaf is ever green; Here is a brighter garden, Where not a frost has been; In its unfading flowers hear the bright bee hum:Prithee, my brother, Into my garden come! 
 

 416A Murmur in the Trees—to note—Not loud enough—for Wind—A Star—not far enough to seek—Nor near enough—to find—A long—long Yellow—on the Lawn—A Hubbub—as of feet—Not audible—as Ours—to Us—But dapperer—More Sweet—A Hurrying Home of little Mentor Houses unperceived—All this—and more—if I should tell—Would never be believed—Of Robins in the Trundle below many I espyWhose Nightgowns could not hide the Wings—Although I heard them try—But then I promised né'er to tell—How could I break My Word? So go your Way—and I'll go Mine—No fear you'll miss the Road. 
 

 657I dwell in Possibility—A fairer House than Prose—More numerous of Windows—Superior—for Doors—Of Chambers as the Cedars—Impregnable of Eye—And for an Everlasting Rooftop Gamblers of the Sky—Of Visitors—the fairest—For Occupation—This—The spreading wide of narrow Hands gather Paradise— 
 

 483A Solemn thing within the South feel itself get ripe—And golden hang—while farther up—The Maker's Ladders stop—And in the Orchard far below—You hear a Being—drop—A Wonderful—to feel the SunS till toiling at the Cheeky thought was finished—Cool of eye, and critical of Work—He shifts the stem—a little—To give your Core—a look—But solemnest—to knockout chance in Harvest moves little nearer—Every Subtle Single—to some lives. 
 

 Wild Nights! Wild Nights! Were I with thee, Wild Nights should four luxury! Futile the winds a heart in port, --Done with the compass, Done with the chart! Rowing in Eden! Ah! The sea! Might I but moorTo-night in Thee! 
 

 161A feather from the WhippoorwillThat everlasting—sings! Whose galleries—are Sunrise—Whose Opera—the Springs—Whose Emerald Nest the Ages spinor mellow—murmuring thread—Whose Beryl Egg, what Schoolboys hunting “Recess”—Overhead! 
 

 78A poor—torn heart—a tattered heart—That sat it down to rest—Nor noticed that the Ebbing Mayflower silver to the West—Nor noticed Night did soft descend—Nor Constellation burn—Intent upon the vision latitudes unknown. The angels—happening that Mathis dusty heart espied—Tenderly took it up from Poland carried it to God—There—sandals for the Barefoot—There—gathered from the gales—Do the blue havens by the handled the wandering Sails. 
 

 After a hundred yearsNobody knows the place, --Agony, that enacted there, Motionless as peace. Weeds triumphant ranged, Strangers strolled and spelled At the lone orthography the elder dead. Winds of summer fieldsRecollect the way, --Instinct picking up the dropped by memory. 
 

 74A Lady red—amid the Hillier annual secret keeps! A Lady white, within the Fielding placid Lily sleeps! The tidy Breezes, with their Brooms—Sweep vale—and hill—and tree! Prithee, My pretty Housewives! Who may expected be? The Neighbors do not yet suspect! The Woods exchange a smile! Orchard, and Buttercup, and Bird—In such a little while! And yet, how still the Landscape stands! How nonchalant the Hedge! As if the “Resurrection”Were nothing very strange! 
 

 608Afraid! Of whom am I afraid? Not Death—for who is He? The Porter of my Father's Lodges much abashed me! Of Life? 'Were odd I fear [a] thingThat comprehended main one or two existences—As Deity decree—Of Resurrection? Is the EastAfraid to trust the Month her fastidious forehead? As soon impeach my Crown! 
 

 601A still—Volcano—Life—That flickered in the night—When it was dark enough to without erasing sight—A quiet—Earthquake Style—Too subtle to suspected natures this side Naples—The North cannot detective Solemn—Torrid—Symbol—The lips that never lie—Whose hissing Corals part—and shut—And Cities—ooze away— 
 

 A shady friend for torrid days easier to Indian one of higher temperature frigid hour of mind. The vane a little to the eastwards muslin souls away;If broadcloth breasts are firmerThan those of organdy, Who is to blame? The weaver? Ah! The bewildering thread! The tapestries of paradise! So hopelessly are made! 
 

 122A something in a summer's Days slow her flambe aux burn awayWhich solemnizes me. A something in a summer's noon—A depth—an Azure—a perfume—Transcending ecstasy. And still within a summer's night something so transporting bright clap my hands to see—Then veil my too inspecting faceless such a subtle—shimmering graceFlutter too far for me—The wizard fingers never rest—The purple brook within the breastStill chafes it narrow bed—Still rears the East her amber Flag—Guides still the sun along the Crashes Caravan of Red—So looking on—the night—the mornConclude the wonder gay—And I meet, coming tho' the dewsAnother summer's Day! 
 

 Apparently with no surprise, To any happy flower, The frost beheads it at its play, In accidental power. The blond assassin passes on. The sun proceeds unmoved, To measure off another day, For an approving God. 
 

 We grow accustomed to the Dark — When light is put away — As when the Neighbor holds the Lamp witness her Goodbye — A Moment — We uncertain stepson newness of the night — Then — fit our Vision to the Dark — And meet the Road — erect — And so of larger — Darkness es — Those Evenings of the Brain — When not a Moon disclose a sign — Or Star — come out — within — The Bravest — grope a little — And sometimes hit a TreeDirectly in the Forehead — But as they learn to see — Either the Darkness alters — Or something in the sightAdjusts itself to Midnight — And Life steps almost straight. 
 

 702A first Mute Coming—In the Stranger's House—A first fair Going—When the Bells rejoice—A first Exchange—what hath mingled—been—For Lot—exhibited to Faith—alone— 
 

 159A little bread—a crust—a crumb—A little trust—a demijohn—Can keep the soul alive—Not portly, mind! But breathing—warm—Conscious—as old Napoleon, The night before the Crown! A modest lot—A fame petite—A brief Campaign of sting and sweets plenty! Is enough! A Sailor's business is the shore! A Soldier's—balls! Who asked more, Must seek the neighboring life! 
 

 I never saw a moor;I never saw the sea, Yet know I how the heather quicksand what a billow is. I never spoke with God, Nor visited in heaven. Yet certain am I of the spots if the checks were given. 
 

 Tell all the truth but tell it slant, Success in circuit lies, Too bright for our infirm delight truth's superb surprise; As lightning to the children easedWith explanation kind, The truth must dazzle gradually every man be blind. 
 

 353A happy lip—breaks sudden—It doesn't state you how It contemplated—smiling—Just consummated—now—But this one, wears its merriment patient—like a pain—Fresh gilded—to elude the eyesUnqualified, to scan— 
 

 Fame is a fickle coupon a shifting plateWhose table once guest but north second time is set. Whose crumbs the crows inspected with ironic Catalan past it to the Farmer's Corn--Men eat of it and die. 
 

 1540As imperceptibly as Grief Summer lapsed away—Too imperceptible at last seem like Perfidy—A Quietness distilled As Twilight long begun, Or Nature spending with herselfSequestered Afternoon—The Dusk drew earlier in—The Morning foreign shone—A courteous, yet harrowing Grace, As Guest, that would be gone—And thus, without a Winger service of a Velour Summer made her light escaping the Beautiful. 
 

 240Ah, Moon—and Star! You are very far—But were no farther than you—Do you think I'd stopper a Firmament—Or a Cubit—or so? I could borrow a Bonnet the Lark—And a Chamois' Silver Boot—And a stirrup of an Antelope—And be with you—Tonight! But, Moon, and Star, Though you're very far—There is one—farther than you—He—is more than a firmament—from Me—So I can never go! 
 

 841A Moth the hue of thisHaunts Candles in Brazil. Nature's Experience would makeup The Reddest Second pale. Nature is fond, I sometimes think, Of Trinkets, as a Girl. 
 

 952A Man may make a Remark—In itself—a quiet thingThat may furnish the Fuse unto a Sparking dormant nature—lain—Let us deport—with skill—Let us discourse—with care—Powder exists in Charcoal—Before it exists in Fire. 
 

 A long, long sleep, a famous sleepwear makes no show for dawn stretch of limb or stir of lid, --An independent one. Was ever idleness like this? Within a hut of stone bask the centuries away once look up for noon? 
 

 After great pain, a formal feeling comes--The Nerves sit ceremonious, like Toombs--The stiff Heart questions was it He, that bore, And Yesterday, or Centuries before? The Feet, mechanical, go round--Of Ground, or Air, or Ought--A Wooden regardless grown, A Quartz contentment, like a stone-- This is the Hour of Lead--Remembered, if outlived, As Freezing persons recollect the Snow--First--Chill--then Stupor--then the letting go-- 
 

 A little road not made of man, Enabled of the eye, Accessible to hill of bee, Or cart of butterfly. If town it has, beyond itself,'T is that I cannot say;I only sigh, --no vehicleBears me along that way. 
 

 59A little East of Jordan, Evangelists record, A Gymnast and an Angelic wrestle long and hard—Till morning touching mountain—And Jacob, waxing strong, The Angel begged permission Breakfast—to return—Not so, said cunning Jacob!” I will not let thee except thou bless me”—Stranger! The which acceded to—Light swung the silver fleeces”Penile” Hills beyond, And the bewildered GymnastFound he had worsted God! 
 

 173A fuzzy fellow, without feet, Yet doth exceeding run! Of velvet, is his Countenance, And his Complexion, dun! Sometime, he dwellers in the grass! Sometime, upon a bough, From which he doth descend in pushpin the Passer-by! All this in summer. But when winds alarm the Forest Folk, He take Damask Residence—And struts in sewing silk! Then, finer than a Lady, Emerges in the spring! A Feather on each shoulder! You'd scarce recognize him! By Men, accept Caterpillar! By me! But who am I, To tell the pretty secret the Butterfly! 
 

 87A darting fear—a pomp—a tear—A waking on a month find that what one waked for, Inhales the different dawn. 
 

 42A Day! Help! Help! Another Day! Your prayers, oh Passer by! From such a common ball as twilight date a Victory! From marshal lings as simpleton flags of nations sang. Steady—my soul: What issuesUpon thine arrow hang! 
 

 859A doubt if it is Assists the staggering Minding an extremer AnguishUntil it footing find. An Unreality is lent, A merciful MirageThat makes the living possibleWhile it suspends the lives. 
 

 399A House upon the Height—That Wagon never reached—No Dead, were ever carried down—No Peddler's Cart—approached—Whose Chimney never smoked—Whose Windows—Night and Morn—Caught Sunrise first—and Sunset—last—Then—held an Empty Pane—Whose fate—Conjecture knew—No other neighbor—did—And what it was—we never lisped—Because He—never told— 
 

 Death leaves Us homesick, who behind, Except that it is tonearm ignorant of its Concerns if it were not born. Through all their former Places, like Individuals who something lost, the seeking forms all that's left them, now— 
 

 204A slash of Blue—A sweep of Gray—Some scarlet patches on the way, Compose an Evening Sky—A little purple—slipped between—Some Ruby Trousers hurried on—A Wave of Gold—A Bank of Day—This just makes out the Morning Sky. 
 

 A door just opened on a street-- I, lost, was passing by--An instant's width of warmth disclosed And wealth, and company. The door as sudden shut, and I, I, lost, was passing by, --Lost doubly, but by contrast most, Enlightening misery. 
 

 Success is counted sweetest those who né'er succeed. To comprehend a nectarRequires the sorest need. Not one of all the purple Host took the Flag today Can tell the definitions clear of Victory As he defeated--dying--On whose forbidden earth distant strains of triumphalist agonized and clear! 
 

 959A loss of something ever felt I—The first that I could recollectBereft I was—of what I knew bottom young that any should suspect Mourner walked among the children notwithstanding went about As one bemoaning a DominionItself the only Prince cast out—Elder, Today, a session Wiseman fainter, too, as Wiseness is—I find myself still softly searching my Delinquent Palaces—And a Suspicion, like a FingerTouches my Forehead now and tenth I am looking oppositely the site of the Kingdom of Heaven— 
 

 A narrow fellow in the grassOccasionally rides;You may have met him, --did you not, His notice sudden is. The grass divides as with a comb, A spotted shaft is seen;And then it closes at your freehand opens further on. He likes a boggy acre, A floor too cool for corn. Yet when a child, and barefoot, I more than once, at morn, Have passed, I thought, a whip-lashUnbraiding in the sun, --When, stooping to secure it, It wrinkled, and was gone. Several of nature's people know, and they know me;I feel for them a transport cordiality;But never met this fellow, Attended or alone, Without a tighter breathing, And zero at the bone. 
 

 Ample make this bed. Make this bed with awe;In it waits till judgment breakExcellent and fair. Be its mattress straight, Be its pillow round;Let no sunrise' yellow noiseInterrupt this ground. 
 

 A drop fell on the apple treeAnother on the roof;A half a dozen kissed the eaves, And made the gables laugh. A few went out to help the brook, That went to help the sea. Myself conjectured, Were they pearl, What necklaces could be! The dust replaced in hoisted loathe birds jocose sung;The sunshine threw his hat away, The orchards spangles hung. The breezes brought dejected bathed them in the glee;The East put out a single flag, And signed the fête away. 
 

 127”Houses”—so the Wise Men tell me—”Mansions”! Mansions must be warm! Mansions cannot let the tears in, Mansions must exclude the storm!” Many Mansions,” by “his Father,”I don't know him; snugly built! Could the Children find the way there—Some, would even trudge tonight! 
 

 300'Morning'—means 'Milking'—to the Farmer—Dawn—to the Tenerife—Dice—to the Maid—Morning means just Risk—to the Lover—Just revelation—to the Beloved—Epicures—date a Breakfast—by it—Brides—an Apocalypse—Worlds—a Flood—Faint-going Lives—Their Lapse from Sighing—Faith—The Experiment of Our Lord 
 

 816A Death blow is a Life blow to Somewhat till they died, did not alive become—Who had they lived, had died but whether died, Vitality begun. 
 

 381A Secret told—Ceases to be a Secret—then—A Secret—kept—That—can appeal but One—Better of it—continual be afraid—Than it—And Whom you told it to—beside— 
 

 'They have not chosen me,' he said,'But I have chosen them!' Brave—Broken hearted statement—Uttered in Bethlehem! I could not have told it, But since Jesus dared—Sovereign! Know a DaisyThey dishonor shared! 
 

 731”I want”—it pleaded—All its life—I want—was chief it maiden Skill entreated it—the last—And when so newly dead—I could not deem it late—to heartbeat single—steadfast sigh—The lips had placed as with a “Please”Toward Eternity— 
 

 229A Burdock—clawed my Gown—Not Burdock's—blame—But mine—Who went too earth Burdock's Den—A Bog—affronts my shoe—What else have Bogs—to do—The only Trade they know—The splashing Men! Ah, pity—then!'This Minnows can despise! The Elephant's—calm overlook further on! 
 

 If I can stop one heart from breaking, I shall not live in vain;If I can ease one life the aching, Or cool one pain, Or help one to faint robinUnto his nest again, I shall not live in vain. 
 

 A light exists in spring Not present on the year At any other period.  When March is scarcely Hara color stands abroad On solitary Hallstatt science cannot overtake, But human nature feels. It waits upon the lawn; It shows the furthest thereupon the furthest slope we know; It almost speaks to me. Then, as horizons step, Or moons report away, Without the formula of sound, It passes, and we stay:A quality of loss Affecting our content, As trade had suddenly encroached Upon a sacrament. 
 

 688'Speech'—is a prank of Parliament—'Tears'—is a trick of the nerve—But the Heart with the heaviest freight on—Doesn't—always—move — 
 

 I'm nobody! Who are you? Are you nobody, too? Then there's a pair of us -- don't tell! They'd banish -- you know! How dreary to be somebody! How public like a front tell one's name the livelong Dayton an admiring bog! 
 

 A clock stopped -- not the mantel's Geneva's farthest skill Can't put the puppet bowing That just now dangled still. An awe came on the trinket!  The figures hunched with pain, Then quivered out of decimals Into degreeless noon. It will not stir for doctors, This pendulum of snow;The showman importunes it, While cool, concernless Goods from the gilded pointers, Nods from seconds slim, Decades of arrogance between The dial life and him. 
 

 964”Unto Me?” I do not know you—Where may be your House?” I am Jesus—Late of Judea—Now—of Paradise”—Wagons—have you—to convey me? This is far from Thence—”Arms of Mine—sufficient Phaeton—Trust Omnipotence”—I am spotted—”I am Pardon”—I am small—”The Least esteemed in Heaven the Chiefest—Occupy my House”— 
 

 421A Charm invests a faceImperfectly beheld—The Lady dare not lift her Valor fear it be dispelled—But peers beyond her mesh—And wishes—and denies—Lest Interview—annul a Watteau Image—satisfies— 
 

 895A Cloud withdrew from the Sky Superior Glory debut that Cloud and its Auxiliaries forever lost to Mead I but further scanned I secured the Glowing a Hermetic Memory It had availed me now.Never to pass the Angelfish a glance and a Bowell I am firm in Heavens my intention now. 
 

 A Coffin—is a small Domain, Yet able to contains Citizen of Paradise In it diminished Plane. A Grave—is a restricted Breadth—Yet ampler than the Sun—And all the Seas He populated Lands He looks upon Him who on its small ReposeBestows a single Friend—Circumference without Relief—Or Estimate—or End— 
 

 Because I could not stop for Death- He kindly stopped for me- The Carriage held but just Ourselves- And Immortality. We slowly drove- He knew no hastened I had put away labor and my leisure too, For His Civility- We passed the School, where Children strove At Recess- in the Ring- We passed the Fields of Gazing Grain- We passed the Setting Sun- Or rather- He passed us- The Dew's drew quivering and chill- For only Gossamer, my Gown- My Tippet- only Tulle- We paused before a House that seemed Swelling of the Ground- The Roof was scarcely visible- The Cornice- in the Ground- Since then- 'TIS Centuries- and feels shorter than the Day first surmised the Horses' Heads Were toward Eternity- 
 

 70'Arcturus' is his other name—I'd rather call him 'Star.' It's very mean of Science go and interfere! I slew a worm the other day—A 'Savant' passing murmured 'Resurvey'—'Centipede'! 'Oh Lord—how frail are we'! I pull a flower from the woods—A monster with a glassComputes the stamens in a breath—And has her in a 'class'! Whereas I took the ButterflyAforetime in my hat—He sits erect in 'Cabinets'—The Clover bells forgot. What once was 'Heaven'Is 'Zenith' now—Where I proposed to when Time's brief masquerade was does mapped and charted too. What if the poles should frisk abound stand upon their heads! I hope I'm ready for 'the worst'—Whatever prank betides! Perhaps the 'Kingdom of Heaven's' changed—I hope the 'Children' there Won't be 'new fashioned' when I come—And laugh at me—and stare—I hope the Father in the skies Will lift his little girl—Old fashioned—naught—everything—Over the stile of 'Pearl.' 
 

 566A Dying Tiger—moaned for Drink—I hunted all the Sand—I caught the Dripping of a Rockland bore it in my Hand—His Mighty Balls—in death were thick—But searching—I could see Vision on the Retina Water—and of me—'Twas not my blame—who sped too slow—'Twas not his blame—who erewhile I was reaching him—But 'twas—the fact that He was dead— 
 

 575”Heaven” has different Signs—to me—Sometimes, I think that Ruins but a symbol of the Place—And when again, at Dawn, A mighty look runs round the Woodland settles in the Hills—An Awe if it should be like thereupon the Ignorance steals—The Orchard, when the Sun is on—The Triumph of the Birdseye they together Victory make—Some Carnivals of Clouds—The Rapture of a finished Day—Returning to the West—All these—remind us of the placement Men call “paradise”—Itself be fairer—we suppose—But how Ourselves, shall adorned, for a Superior Grace—Not yet, our eyes can see— 
 

 There is no frigate like a built take us lands away, Nor any coursers like a page prancing poetry. This traverse may the poorest takeWithout oppress of toll;How frugal is the chariotThat bears a human soul! 
 

 480”Why do I love” You, Sir? Because—The Wind does not require the Grass answer—Wherefore when He passage cannot keep Her place. Because He knows—and not You—And We know not—Enough for The Wisdom it is so—The Lightning—never asked an Wherefore it shut—when He was by—Because He knows it cannot speak—And reasons not contained——Of Talk—There be—preferred by Daintier Folk—The Sunrise—Sire—compelled Me—Because He's Sunrise—and I see—Therefore—Then—I love Thee— 
 

 'Hope' is the thing with feathers—That perches in the soul—And sings the tune without the words—And never stops—at all—And sweetest—in the Gale—is heard—And sore must be the storm—That could abash the little Birth kept so many warm—I've heard it in the chillest land—And on the strangest Sea—Yet, never, in Extremity, It asked a crumb—of Me. 
 
