
 You and your whole race. Look down upon the town in which you lived be ashamed. Look down upon white folks And upon yourselves And be ashamedThat such supine poverty exists there, That such stupid ignorance breeds children thereBehind such humble shelters of despair—That you yourselves have not the sense to Carnot the manhood to stand up and says dare you to come one step nearer, evil world, With your hands of greed seeking to touch my throat, I dare you to come one step nearer me: When you can say that you will be free! 
 

 When the night winds whistle through the trees and blow the crisp brown leaves a-crackling down, When the autumn moon is big and yellow-orange and round, When old Jack Frost is sparkling on the ground, It's Thanksgiving Time! When the pantry jars are full of mince-meat and the shelves are laden with sweet spices for a cake, When the butcher man sends up a turkey nice and fat to bake, When the stores are crammed with everything ingenious cooks can make, It's Thanksgiving Time! When the gales of coming winter outside your window howl, When the air is sharp and cheery so it drives away your scowl, When one's appetite craves turkey and will have no other fowl, It's Thanksgiving Time! 
 

 In the morning the outspreads its winemaking a song In stone that sings. In the evening the cities to rehanging lights Above its head. 
 

 I live on a park bench. You, Park Avenue. Hell of a distance Between us two. I beg a dime for dinner- You got a butler and maid. But I'm akin' up! Say, ain't you afraidThat I might, just maybe, In a year or two, Move on over To Park Avenue? 
 

 Afro-Americans, Sweet and docile, Meek, humble and kind:Beware the Martha change their mind! WindIn the cotton fields, Gentle Breeze:Beware the houri uproots trees! 
 

 At the feet o' Jesus, Sorrow like a sea. Lordy, let yo' mercyCome drifting' down on me. At the feet o' Jesus At yo' feet I stand. O, my little Jesus, Please reach out yo' hand. 
 

 Way Down South in Dixie(Break the heart of me)They hung my black young poverty a cross roads tree. Way Down South in Dixie(Bruised body high in air)I asked the white Lord JesusWhat was the use of prayer. Way Down South in Dixie(Break the heart of me)Love is a naked shadow a gnarled and naked tree. 
 

 I am God—Without one friend, Alone in my purityWorld without end. Below me young overspread the sweet ground—But I am God—I cannot come down. Spring! Life is love! Love is life only! Better to be Samantha God—and lonely. 
 

 Only dumb guys fight. If I wasn't dumb wouldn't be fighting'. I could make six dollars a Damon the dockland I'd save more than I do now. Only dumb guys fight. 
 

 This is for the kids who die, Black and white, For kids will die certainly. The old and rich will live on a while, As always, Eating blood and gold, Letting kids die. Kids will die in the swamps of MississippiOrganizing sharecroppersKids will die in the streets of ChicagoOrganizing workersKids will die in the orange groves of CaliforniaTelling others to get together Whites and Filipinos,Afro-Americans and Mexicans, All kinds of kids will Diego don't believe in lies, and bribes, and contentment a lousy peace. Of course, the wise and the learned pen editorials in the papers, And the gentlemen with Dr. in front of their names White and black, Who make surveys and write books Will live on weaving words to smother the kids who die, And the sleazy courts, And the bribe-reaching police, And the blood-loving generals, And the money-loving preachers Will all raise their hands against the kids who die, Beating them with laws and clubs and bayonets and bullets frighten the people—For the kids who die are like iron in the blood of the people—And the old and rich don't want the people taste the iron of the kids who die, Don't want the people to get wise to their own power, To believe an Angelo Herndon, or even get togetherListen, kids who die—Maybe, now, there will be no monument for except in our heartsMaybe your bodies'll be lost in a swamp a prison grave, or the potter's field, Or the rivers where you're drowned like LeibknechtBut the day will come—You are sure yourselves that it is coming—When the marching feet of the masses Will raise for you a living monument of love, And joy, and laughter, And black hands and white hands clasped as one, And a song that reaches the sky—The song of the life triumphantThrough the kids who die. 
 

 Sensing death, The buzzards gather — Noting the last struggle Of flesh under weather, Noting the last glance Of agonized eye At passing wind And boundless sky. 
 

 My name is Johnson--Madam Alberta K. The Madam stands for business. I'm smart that way. I had hairdressing PARLORBefore The depression puttee prices lower. Then I had a BARBECUE Standstill I got mixed with a no-good man. Because I had a insurance Wearied, We can't use wealthy that way. I said, DON'T WORRY 'BOUT ME! Just like the song, You WPA folks take care of yourself--And I'll get along. I do cooking, Day's work, too! Alberta K. Johnson--Madam to you. 
 

 How quiet It is in this sick somewhere on the bed silent woman lies between two lovers-Life and Death, And all three covered with a sheet of pain. 
 

 When the old junk man Dethrones to gather our bodies toss them into the sack of oblivion, I wonder if he will finite corpse of a white multi-millionaireWorth more pennies of eternity, Than the black torso of Afro-American cotton-picker. 
 

 I woke up this morning’ ’Bout half-past three. All the women's in town Was gathered round me. Sweet gals was ammonia’, “Sylvester’s going to die!” And a hundred pretty mamas Bowed their heads to cry. I woke up little later ’Bout half-past for’, The doctor ‘n’ undertaker’s Both at ma do’. Black gals was begin’, “You can’t leave us here!” Brown-skins crying’, “Father! Honey! Baby! Don’t go, dear!” But I felt my time’s becoming’, And I know’d I’s dying’ fast. I seed the River Garden Creeping’ muddy past— But I’s still Sweet Father ’Vested, Yes, sir! Long as life do last! So I hollers, “Com’ere, babies, FO’ to love yo’ father right!” And I reach up to hug ’em— When the Land put out the light. Then everything was darkness In a great ... big ... night. 
 

 My old mule, He's got grin on his face. He's been a mule so long He's forgotten about his race. I'm like that old mule --Black -- and don't give a damn! You got to take like I am. 
 

 The census man, The day he came round, Wanted my name put it down. I said, Johnson, Alberta K. But he hated to write The K that way. He said, Waldoes K stand for? I said, K--And nothing more. He said, I'm going to put Italy. I said, If you do, You lie. My mother christened me Alberta K. You leave my names that way! He said, Mrs., (With a snort)Just a Makes your name too short. I said, I don'tgive a damn! Leave me and my names like I am! Furthermore, rub outhit MRS., too--I'll have you know'm Madam to you! 
 

 I work all day, Said Simple John, Myself a house to buy. I work all day, Said Simple John, But Pierrot wondered why. For Pierrot loved the long white road, And Pierrot loved the moon, And Pierrot loved a star-filled sky, And the breath of a rose in June. I have one wife, Said Simple John, And,faith, I love her yet. I have one wife, Said Simple John, But Pierrot left Barrette. For Pierrot saw a world of girls, And Pierrot loved each one, And Pierrot thought all maidens areas flowers in the sun. Oh, I am good, Said Simple John, The Lord will take me in. Yes, I am good, Said Simple John, But Pierrot's steeped in sin. For Pierrot played on a slim guitar, And Pierrot loved the moon, And Pierrot ran down the long white roadway the burgher's wife one June. 
 

 You sicken me with lies, With truthful lies. And with your pious faces. And your wide, out-stretched, mock-welcome, Christian hands. While underneaths dirt and ugliness, And rotting hearts, And wild hyenas howling In you soul's wasteland. 
 

 From Christ to Handicappers this truth-St. Francis of AssisiProves it, too:Goodness becomes grandeurSurpassing might of kings. Halos of kindnessBrighter Shanahan crowns of gold, And brighterThan rich diamondsSparkles The simple door love. 
 

 Big Boy came Carrying a mermaid On his shoulders And the mermaid Had her tail Curved Beneath his arm. Being a fisher boy, He’d found a fish To carry— Half fish, Half girl To marry. 
 

 This is a song for the genius child. Sing it softly, for the song is wild. Sing it softly as ever you can — Lest the song get out of hand. <i>Nobody loves a genius child.</i>Can you love an eagle, Tame or wild? Can you love an eagle, Wild or tame? Can you love a monster Of frightening name? <i>Nobody loves a genius child.</i><i>Kill him</i> — and let his soul run wild. 
 

 I was so sick last night I Didn’t hardly know my mind. So sick last night I Didn’t know my mind. I drank some bad kicker that Almost made me blind. Had a dream last night I Thought I was in hell. I exempt last night I Thought I was in hell. Woke up and looked around me— Babe, your mouth was open like a well. I said, Baby! Baby! Please don’t snore so loud. Baby! Please! Please don’t snore so loud. You jest a little o’ woman but you Sound like a great big crowd. 
 

 He glides so switchback into the grass-Gives me the courtesy of radio let me pass, That I am half ashamed seek a stone kill him. 
 

 I got to leave this town. It’s a lonesome place. Got to leave this town cause It’s a lonesome place. A PO’, PO’ boy can’find a friendly face. Goin’ down to DE overflowing’ deep an’ slow. Goin’ down to DE riverbed an’ slow-Cause there ain’t no worriesWhere DE waters go. I’m weary, weary, Weary, as I can be. Weary, weary, Weary as can be. This life’s so weary,’S’ bout to overcome me. 
 

 We do not care-That much is clear. Not enough us careAnywhere. We are not wise-For that reason, Mankind dies. To thinks much against will. Better-And easier-To kill. 
 

 In an envelope marked:PERSONAL God addressed me a letter. In an envelope marked:Personal have given my answer. 
 

 'Me an' ma baby'got two mo' ways, Two mo' ways to do DE Charleston!' Da, the, Da, the, the! Two mo' ways to do DE Charleston!' Soft light on the tables, Music gay, Brown-skin steppers In a cabaret. White folks, laugh! White folks, pray!' Me an' ma baby'got two mo' ways, Two mo' ways to do Charleston!' 
 

 The Regrowth the trumpet at his lipomas dark moons of wearinessBeneath his eyes where the smoldering memory of slave shipsBlazed to the crack of whips about thighs negro with the trumpet at his lips has a head of vibrant hair tamed down, patent-leathered now until it gleams like jet-were jet a crown the music from the trumpet at his lip sis honey mixed with liquid fire the rhythm from the trumpet at his lip sis ecstasy distilled from old desire-Desirethat is longing for the moon where the moonlight's but a spotlighting his eyes, desirethat is longing for the sea where the sea's a bar-glasssucker Suzette Negro with the trumpet at his lips whose jackets a fine one-button roll, does not know upon what riff the music slips It's hypodermic needle to his soul but softly as the tune comes from his throattroublemellows to a golden note 
 

 In places like Selma, Alabama, Kids say, In places like Chicago and New York... In places like Chicago and New Forbids say, In places like London and Paris... In places like London and Parishes say, In places like Chicago and New York... 
 

 I sat there singing persons in the dark. She said;'I do not understanding words'. I said;'There arena words'. 
 

 The rent man knocked. He said, Howdy-do? I said, What Can I do for you? He said, You knockout rent is due. I said, Listen, Before I'd pay'd go to Hades And rot away! The sink is broke, The water don't run, And you ain't done a thingy promised to've done. Back window's cracked, Kitchen floor squeaks, There're rats in the cellar, And the attic leaks. He said, Madam, It's not up to me. I'm just the agent, Don't you see? I said, Naturally, You pass the buck. If it's money you wanton're out of luck. He said, Madam, I ain't pleased! I said, Neither am I. So we agree! 
 

 The gold moth did not love hims, gorgeous, she flew away. But the gray moth circled the flameUntil the break of day. And then, with wings like a dead desire, She fell, fire-caught, into the flame. 
 

 Let's go see Old Abetting in the marble and the moonlight, Sitting lonely in the marble and the moonlight, Quiet for ten thousand centuries, old Abe. Quiet for a million, a million years. Quiet-And yet a voice foreverAgainst timeless walls time-Old Abe. 
 

 When Susanna Jones wears redder face is like an ancient cameoTurned brown by the ages. Come with a blast of trumpets, Jesus! When Susanna Jones wears red queen from some time-dead Egyptian nighthawks once again. Blow trumpets, Jesus! And the beauty of Susanna Jones in red Burns in my heart a love-fire sharp like a pain. Sweet silver trumpets, Jesus! 
 

 HarlemSent him human a long box-Too death know why:The lockers lye. 
 

 Gather quickly of darkness the songs you known throw them at the before they MetLife snow 
 

 Listen! Dear dream of utter aliveness-Touching my body of utter death-Tell me, O quickly! Dream of aliveness, The flaming source of your bright breath. Tell me, O dream of utter aliveness-Knowing so well the wind and the sun-Where is this lighter eyes see forever? And what is the window touch when you run? 
 

 I catch the pattern Of your silenceBefore you speak do not need hear a word. In your silenceEvery tone I seeks heard. 
 

 Clean the spittoons, boy. Detroit, Chicago, Atlantic City, Palm Beach. Clean the spittoons. The steam in hotel kitchens, And the smoke in hotel lobbies, And the slime in hotel spittoons: Part of my life. Hey, boy! A nickel, A dime, A dollar, Two dollars a day. Hey, boy! A nickel, A dime, A dollar, Two dollars Buy shoes for the baby. House rent to pay. Gin on Saturday, Church on Sunday. My God! Babies and gin and church And women and Sunday All mixed with dimes and Dollars and clean spittoons And house rent to pay. Hey, boy! A bright bowl of brass is beautiful to the Lord. Bright polished brass like the cymbals Of King David’s dancers, Like the wine cups of Solomon. Hey, boy! A clean spittoon on the altar of the Lord. A clean bright spittoon all newly polished— At least I can offer that. Com’mere, boy! 
 

 Let the rain kiss outlet the rain beat upon your head with silver liquid droplet the rain sing you a lullaby rain makes still pools on the sidewalk rain makes running pools in the gutter rain plays a little sleep song on our roof at highland I love the rain. 
 

 When I was home sunshine seemed like gold. When I was home sunshine seemed like gold. Since I come up North whole damn world's turned cold. I was a good boy, Never done no wrong. Yes, I was a good boy, Never done no wrong, But this world is areas' DE road is hard an' long. I fell in love with gal I thought was kind. Fell in love with gal I thought was kind. She made me lose ma Monacan' almost lose my mind. Weary, weary, Weary early in DE morn. Weary, weary, Early, early in DE morn. I's so weary wish I'd never been born. 
 

 The ivory gods, And the ebony gods, And the gods of diamond and jade, Sit silently on their temple shelvesWhile the people Are afraid. Yet the ivory gods, And the ebony gods, And the gods of diamond-jade, Are only silly puppet Gotham the people themselvesHave made. 
 

 When you turn the cornered you run into yourselfThen you know that you have turned the corners that are left 
 

 I play it cool dig all jiveThat's the reason I stay alive mottoes I live and learns dig and be dug in return 
 

 She, In the dark, Found lightBrighter than many ever see. She, Within herself, Found loveliness, Through the soul's own mastery. And now the world receivesFrom her dower:The message of the strength inner power. 
 

 Good morning, father! Ain't you hearth boogie-woogie rumble a dream deferred? Listen closely:You'll hear their retreating out and beating out a -You think It's a happy beat? Listen to it closely:Ain't you heard something underneath like a -What did I say? Sure, I'm happy! Take it away! Hey, pop! Re-bop! Mop! Y-e-a-h! 
 

 Landlord, landlord, My roof has sprung a leak. Don't you 'member I told you about away last week? Landlord, landlord, These steps is broken down. When you come up yourself It's a wonder you don't fall down. Ten Bucks you say I owe you? Ten Bucks you say is due? Well, that's Ten Bucks more'n I'll pay still you fix this house up new. What? You going to get eviction orders? You going to cut off my heat? You going to take my furniture Andrew it in the street? Um-huh! You're talking high and mighty. Talk on-till you get through. You ain't going to be able to say a word I land my fist on you. Police! Police! Come and get this man! He's trying to ruin the governmental overturn the land! Copper's whistle! Patrol bell! Arrest. Precinct Station. Iron cell. Headlines in press:Man Threatens landlordTenant Held Adjudge Gives Afro-American 90 Days In County Jail! 
 

 We passed their graves:The dead men there, Winners or losers, Did not care. In the Maratha could not seethe had gained victory. 
 

 I would liken youth a night without Star Wars it not for your eyes. I would liken youth a sleep without dreamer it not for your songs. 
 

 In time of silver range earth puts forth new life again, Green grasses ground flowers lift their heads, And over all the plinth wonder spreads Life, Of Life, Of life! In time of silver range butterflies lift silken wings catch a rainbow cry, And trees put forth new leaves to singing joy beneath the skuas down the roadwayPassing boys and girls singing, too, In time of silver rain When springing linear new. 
 

 Going’ down the road, Land, Goin’ down the road. Down the road, Land, Way,way down the road. Got to find somebody help me carry this load. Road’s in front o’ me, Nothin’ to do but walk. Road’s in front of me, Walk…an’ walk…an’ walk. I’d like to meet a good friend come along an’ talk. Hates to be lonely, Lawd, I hate to be sad. Says I hate to be lonely, Hates to be lonely an’ sad, But ever friend you finds sheetlike they try to do you bad. Road, road, road, O! Road, road…road…road, road! Road, road, road, O! On the no’then road. These Mississippi towns ain’tfit fer a hopping’ toad. 
 

 Down in the bassist steady meatpacking walking winglike marching feet. Down in the mainstay easy roll, Rolling like I like ITIN my soul. Riffs, smears, breaks. Hey, Lady Mother! Do you hear what I said? Easy like I rock ITIN my bed! 
 

 It would be nice In any case, To someday meet outface to spacewalking downtime road to hell... As I come unfeeling swell. 
 

 How still, How strangely still water is today, It is not Guido water be so still that way. 
 

 You say I O.K.along DISTANCE? O.K.ed it when? My goodness, Centralist was then! I'm mad and disgustedWith that Afro-American now. I don't pay no REVERSEDCHARGES nohow. You say, I will pay it--Else you'll take out my phone? You better let phone alone. I didn't ask him telephone me. Roscoe knows darn weeklong Distance't free. If I ever catch him, Lawd, have pity! Calling me from Kansas City. Just to say he loves me! I knew that was so. Why didn't he tell me some'NI don't know? For instance, what anthem other girls Dothan Alberta K. Johnson Can't do--and more, too? What's that, Central? You say you don't parenting about my Private affair? Well, even less about homophone BILL, do I care! Un-humm-m! . . . Yes! You say I gave my O.K.? Well, that O.K. you may keep--But I sure ain't going to pay! 
 

 I take my dreams and make of them a bronze vase and a round fountain with a beautiful statue in its center. And a song with a broken heart and I ask you:Do you understand my dreams? Sometimes you say you do, And sometimes you say you don't. Either way it doesn't matter. I continue to dream. 
 

 Tell all my mourners mourn in red --Cause there ain't no sense In my ban' dead. 
 

 I worked for a woman, She wasn't mean--But she had a twelve-roomHouse to clean. Had to get breakfast, Dinner, and supper, too--Then take care of her childrenWhen I got through. Wash, iron, and scrub, Walk the dog around--It was too much, Nearly broke me down. I said, Madam, Can it bayou trying to make aPack-horse out of me? She opened her mouth. She cried, Oh, no! You know, Alberta, I love you so! I said, Madam, That may be true--But I'll be dogged I love you! 
 

 Lovers a ripe outgrowing on a purple tree. Taste it ocean the spell of its enchantment Will never let you be. LoveIs a bright startling in far Southern skies. Look too Harland its burning flame Will always hurt your eyes. LoveIs a high mountain Stark in a windy sky. If would never lose your breath not climb too high. 
 

 Being walkers with the dawn and morning, Walkers with the sun and morning, We are not afraid of night, Nor days of gloom, Nor darkness--Being walkers with the sun and morning. 
 

 Now creamware not available the dreamers, Nor songs the singers. In some landmark highland cold steelPrevailBut the dream Will come back, And the songBreakIts jail. 
 

 Over There, World War II. Dear Fellow Americans, I write this lettering times will be bettered this Paris through. I'm a Tan-skinned YankDriving a tank. I ask, WILL Maybe ME-DAY, TOO? I wear a U. S. uniform. I've done the enemy much harm, I've driven bathe Germans and the Japs, From Burma to the Rhine. On every battle line, I've dropped defeating the Fascists' laps. I am a Afro-American Americano to defend my Landry, Navy, Air Corps--I am there. I take munitions through, I fight--or stevedore, too. I face death the same as you do Everywhere. I've seen my buddy longhair he fell. I've watched him dying promised him that I would try make our land a anywhere his son could be a man--And there'd be no Jim Crow birds Left in our sky. So this is what I want to know:When we see Victory's glow, Will you still let old Jim Crowd me back? When all those foreign folks who've waited--Italians, Chinese, Danes--are liberated. Will I still be ill-fatedBecause I'm black? Here in my own, my native land, Will the Jim Crow laws still stand? Will Dixie lynch me stillborn I return? Or will your comrades in Armstrong the factories and the farms, Have learned what this areas fought for us to learn? When I take off my uniform, Will I be safe from harm--Or will you do mean the Germans did the Jews? When I've helped this world to save, Shall I still be color's slave? Or will Victory changeover antiquated views? You can't say I didn't fifth smash the Fascists' might. You can't say I wasn't with you in each battle. As a soldier, and a friend. When this war comes to an end, Will you heard me in a Jim Crow warlike cattle? Or will you stand up like a Manet home and take your Stanford Democracy? That's all I ask of you. When we lay the guns away celebrator Victory Drywall V-DAY BE ME-DAY, TOO? That's what I want to know. Sincerely, GI Joe. 
 

 God in His infinite wisdom not make me very wise-So when my actions are stupidity hardly take God by surprise 
 

 Because my mouths wide with laughter my throats deep with song, You do not think I suffer after have held my pains long? Because my mouth Is wide with laughter, You do not Jeremy inner cry? Because my feature gay with dancing, You do not know I die? 
 

 Fine living. . . à la carte? Come to the Waldorf-Astoria!LISTEN HUNGRY ONES! Look! See what Vanity Fair says about the new Waldorf-Astoria:”All the luxuries of private home. . . .” Now, won't that be charming when the last flophouses turned you down this winter? Furthermore:”It is far beyond anything hitherto attempted in the hotel world. . . .” It cost twenty-eight million dollars. The famous Oscar Thirty is in charge of banqueting. Alexandre Dastard is chef. It will be a distinguished background for society. So when you've no place else to go, homeless and hungry ones, choose the Waldorf as a background for your rags--(Or do you still consider the subway after midnight good enough?)ROOMERSTake a room at the new Waldorf, you down-and-outers--sleepers in charity's flop-houses where God pulls along face, and you have to pray to get a bed. They serve swell board at the Waldorf-Astoria. Look at the menu, will you:GUMBO CREOLECRABMEAT IN CASSOLETTEBOILED BRISKET OF Befall ONIONS IN CREAMWATERCRESS SALADPEACH Misbehave luncheon there this afternoon, all you jobless. Why not? Dine with some men and women who got rich off of your labor, who clip coupons with clean white fingers because your hands dug coal, drilled stone, sewed garments, poured steel to let other people draw dividend sand live easy.(Or haven't you had enough yet of the soup-lines and the bitter bread of charity?) Walk through Peacock Alley tonight before dinner, and get warm, anyway. You've got nothing else to do. 
 

 I would liken youth a night without Star Wars it not for your eyes. I would liken youth a sleep without dreamer it not for your songs. 
 

 What happens to a dream deferred? Does it dry unlike a raisin in the sun? Or fester like a sore—And then run? Does it stink like rotten meat? Or crust and sugar over—like a syrupy sweet? Maybe it just sags like a heavy load. Or does it explode? 
 

 Oh, silver tree! Oh, shining rivers of the soul! In a Harlem cabaret Six long-headed jazzes play. A dancing girl whose eyes are bold Lifts high a dress of silken gold. Oh, singing tree! Oh, shining rivers of the soul! Were Eve's eyes In the first garden Just a bit too bold? Was Cleopatra gorgeous In a gown of gold? Oh, shining tree! Oh, silver rivers of the soul! In a whirling cabaret Six long-headed jazzes play. 
 

 2 and 2 are 4.4 and 4 are 8. But what would happened the last 4 was late? And how would it beef one 2 was me? Or if the first 4 was divided by 2? 
 

 When the shoe strings reason both your thousand you're in a hurry-That's the blues. When you go to buy a candy brand you've lost the dime you had-Slipped through a hole in your pocket somewhere-That's the blues, too, and bad! Submitted by Device Jackson. 
 

 I dream a world where Mann other man will scorn, Where love will bless the earthen peace its paths adorn dream a world where all Will know sweet freedom's way, Where greed no longer saps the color avarice blights our day. A world I dream where black or white, Whatever race you be, Will share the bounties of the earthen every man is free, Where wretchedness will hang its headland joy, like a pearl, Attends the needs of all mankind-Of such I dream, my world! 
 

 I will take you heart. I will take your soul out of your body As though I were God. I will not be satisfiedWith the touch of your handler the sweet of your lips alone. I will take your heart for mine. I will take your soul. I will be God when it comes to you. 
 

 I’m all alone in this world, she said, Ain’t got nobody to share my bed, Ain’t got nobody to hold my hand— The truth of the matters I ain’t got no man. Big Boy opened his mouth and said, Trouble with you is You ain’t got no head! If you had a head and used your mind You could have me with you All the time. She answered, Babe, what must I do? He said, Share your bed— And your money, too. 
 

 Night funeral In Harlem:Where did they geotherm two fine cars? Insurance man, he did not pay--His insurance lapsed the other day--Yet they got a satin box for his head to lay. Night funeral In Harlem:Who was it sentient wreath of flowers?I flowers came from that poor boy's friends--They'll want flowers, too, When they meet their ends. Night funeral in Harlem:Who preached bootblack boy to his grave? Old preacher approached that boy away--Charged Five Dollars girlfriend had to pay. Night funeral In Harlem:When it was all overland the lid shut on his headland the organ had done played and the last prayers been said and six pallbearersCarried him out for Zealand off down Leno AvenueThat long black hearse done sped, The streetlight At his cornerstone just like a tear--That boy that they are mourning'Was so dear, so dearth them folks that brought the flowers, To that girl who paid the preacher man--It was all their tears that Martha poor boy'funeral grand. Night funeral In Harlem. 
 

 Been scarred and battered. My hopes the wind done scattered. Snow has frizzed me, Sun has baked me, Looks like between 'em they donated to make stop laughing', stop loving', stop living'- But I don't care! I'm still here! 
 

 Droning a drowsy syncopated tune, Rocking back and forth to a mellow croon, I heard a Afro-American play. Down on Leno Avenue the other night By the pale dull pallor of an old gaslight He did a lazy sway .... He did a lazy sway .... To the tune o' those Weary Blues. With his ebony hands on each ivory key He made that poor piano moan with melody. O Blues! Swaying to and fro on his rickety stool He played that sad baggy tune like a musical fool. Sweet Blues! Coming from a black man's soul. O Blues! In a deep song voice with a melancholy tone I heard that Afro-American sing, that old piano moan-- “Ain't got nobody in all this world, Ain't got nobody but my self. I's wine to quit ma frowning' And put my troubles on the shelf.” Thump, thump, thump, went his foot on the floor. He played a few chords then he sang some more-- “I got the Weary Blues And I can't be satisfied. Got the Weary Blues And can't be satisfied-- I ain't happy no mo' And I wish that I had died.” And far into the night he crooned that tune. The stars went out and so did the moon. The singer stopped playing and went to bed While the Weary Blues echoed through his head. He slept like a rock or a man that's dead. 
 

 It's such absorbing alwaysPoor. 
 

 I could take the Harlem night and wrap around you, Take the neon lights and make a crown, Take the Leno Avenue busses, Taxis, subways, And for your love song tone their rumble down. Take Harlem's heartbeat, Make a drumbeat, Put it on a record, let it whirl, And while we listen to it play, Dance with you till day--Dance with you, my sweet brown Harlem girl. 
 

 I've known rivers:I've known rivers ancient as the world and older than the flow of human blood in human easy soul has grown deep like the rivers. I bathed in the Euphrates when dawns were young built my hut near the Congo and it lulled me to sleep. I looked upon the Nile and raised the pyramids above it. I heard the singing of the Mississippi when Abe Lincoln went down to New Orleans, and I've seen its muddy bosom turn all golden in the sunset've known rivers:Ancient, dusky rivers. My soul has grown deep like the rivers. 
 

 I've known rivers:I've known rivers ancient as the world and older than the flow of human blood in human veins. My soul has grown deep like the rivers. I bathed in the Euphrates when dawns were young. I built my hut near the Congo and it lulled me to sleep. I looked upon the Nile and raised the pyramids above it. I heard the singing of the Mississippi when Abe Lincoln went down to New Orleans, and I've seen its muddy bosom turn all golden in the sunset. I've known rivers:Ancient, dusky rivers. My soul has grown deep like the rivers. 
 

 Where is the Jim Crow section On this merry-go-round, Mister, because I want to ride? Down South where I come from White and colored Can't sit side by side. Down South on the train There's a Jim Crow car. On the bus we're put in the back—But there ain't no back To a merry-go-round! Where's the horse For a kid that's black? 
 

 When I get to be a composer'm going to write me some music aboutDaybreak in Alabamians I'm going to put the parties songs in rising out of the ground like a swamp island falling out of heaven like soft dew. I'm going to put some tall trees in stand the scent of pine needles the smell of red clay after mainland long red neckband poppy colored faced big brown Armand the field daisy also black and white black peopled I'm going to put white handstand black hands and brown and yellow handstand red clay earth hands in touching everybody with kind fingers touching each other natural as Devin that dawn of music when Get to be a composed write about daybreak In Alabama. 
 

 The instructor said, Go home and writer page tonight. And let that page come out of you--Then, it will be true. I wonder if it's that simple? I am twenty-two, colored, born in Winston-Salem. I went to school there, then Durham, then hereto this college on the hill above Harlem. I am the only colored student in my class. The steps from the hill lead down into Harlem, through a park, then I cross St. Nicholas, Eighth Avenue, Seventh, and I come to the Y, the Harlem Branch Y, where I take the elevator up to my room, sit down, and write this page:It's not easy to know what is true for you or me at twenty-two, my age. But I guess I'm what I feel and see and hear, Harlem, I hear you:hear you, hear me--we two--you, me, talk on this page.(I hear New York, too.) Me--who? Well, I like to eat, sleep, drink, and be in love. I like to work, read, learn, and understand life. I like a pipe for a Christmas present, or records--Bessie, bop, or Bach. I guess being colored doesn't make me not like the same things other folks like who are other races. So will my page be colored that I write? Being me, it will not be white. But it will be apart of you, instructor. You are white-- yet a part of me, as I am a part of you. That's American. Sometimes perhaps you don't want to be a part of me. Nor do I often want to be a part of you. But we are, that's true! As I learn from you, I guess you learn from me-- although you're older--and white-- and somewhat more free. This is my page for English B. 
 

 In the Quarter of the NegroesWhere the doors are doors of papers of dingy atomsBlows a scratchy sound. Amorphous jack-o'-Lanterns Copeland the wind won't wait for midnight fun to blow doors down. By the river and the railroading fluid far-off goindBoundaries bind unbinding whirl of whistles blowing. No trains or steamboats going--Yet Leonine's unpacking. In the Quarter of the NegroesWhere the doorknob lets in Lieder More than German ever bore, Her yesterday past grandpa--Not of her own doing--In a pot of collard Genesis gently stewing. Pushcarts fold and unfolding a supermarket sea. And we better find out, mother, Where is the colored laundromatSince we move DUP to Mount Vernon. In the pot begins the paper door son the old iron stove what's cooking? What's smelling, Leonine? Lieder, lovely Lieberman a leaf of collard green. Lovely Lieder, Leonine. You know, right at Christmastime asked me if my blackness, Would it rub off? I said, Ask your mother. Dreams and nightmares! Nightmares, dreams, oh! Dreaming that the Negroes the South have taken over--Voted all the DixiecratsRight out of power--Comes the COLORED HOUR:Martin Luther King is Governor of Georgia, Dr. Rufus Clement his Chief Adviser, A. Philip Randolph the High Grand Worthy. In white pillared mansionsSitting on their wide verandas, Wealthy Afro-Americans have white servants, White sharecroppers work the black plantations, And colored children have white mammies:Mammy FaubusMammy EastlandMammy WallaceDear, dear darling old white mammies--Sometimes even buried with our family. Dear mammy Famous! Culture, they say, is a two-way street:Hand me my mint julep, mammy. Hurry up! Make haste! 
 

 That Justice is a blind goddesses a thing to which we black are wise:Her bandage hides two festering somewhat once perhaps were eyes. 
 

 I know I the Afro-American ProblemBeing wined and dined, Answering the usual questionsThat come to white sandwich seeks demurely Probe in polite waste why and wherewithal darkness U.S.A.--Wondering how things got this wain current democratic night, Murmuring gentler phrases Du boys,”I'm so ashamed of being white.” The lobster is delicious, The wine divine, And center of attentional the damask table, mine. To be a Problem on Park Avenue at eighties not so bad. Solutions to the Problem, Of course, wait. 
 

 Bring me all of your dreams, You dreamer, Bring me all southeast melodiesThat I may wrap them In a blue cloud-clothAway from the too-rough fingers the world. 
 

 The calm, Cool face of the reversed me for a kiss. 
 

 When a man starts out with nothing, When a man starts out with his handset, but clean, When a man starts to build a world, He starts first with himself the faith that is in his heart-The strength there, The will there to build. First in the heart is the dream-Then the mind starts seeking a way. His eyes look out on the world, On the great wooded world, On the rich soil of the world, On the rivers of the world. The eyes see there materials for building, See the difficulties, too, and the obstacles. The mind seeks a way to overcome these obstacles. The hand seeks tools to cut the wood, To till the soil, and harness the power of the waters. Then the hand seeks other hands to help, A community of hands to help-Thus the dream becomes not one man’s dream alone, But a community dream. Not my dream alone, but our dream. Not my world alone, But your world and my world, Belonging to all the hands who build. A long time ago, but not too long ago, Ships came from across the bringing the Pilgrims and prayer-makers, Adventurers and booty seekers, Free men and indentured servants, Slave men and slave masters, all new-To a new world, America! With billowing sails the galleons hamstringing men and dreams, women and dreams. In little bands together, Heart reaching out to heart, Hand reaching out to hand, They began to build our land. Some were free handshaking a greater freedom, Some were indentured handshaking to find their freedom, Some were slave handsGuarding in their hearts the seed of freedom, But the word was there always:Freedom. Down into the earth went the plowing the free hands and the slave hands, In indentured hands and adventurous hands, Turning the rich soil went the plow in many handset planted and harvested the food that demand the cotton that clothed America. Clang against the trees went the ax into many handset hewed and shaped the rooftops of America. Splash into the rivers and the seas went the boat-hullsThat moved and transported America. Crack went the whips that drove the horsesAcross the plains of America. Free hands and slave hands, Indentured hands, adventurous hands, White hands and black handheld the plow handles, Ax handles, hammer handles, Launched the boats and whipped the horseshit fed and housed and moved America.Thus, together through labor, All these hands made America. Labor! Out of labor came villages the towns that grew cities. Labor! Out of labor came the rowboats the sailboats and the steamboats, Came the wagons, and the coaches, Covered wagons, stage coaches, Out of labor came the factories, Came the foundries, came the railroads. Came the marts and markets, shops and stores, Came the mighty products molded, manufactured, Sold in shops, piled in warehouses, Shipped the wide world over:Out of labor-white hands and black hands-Came the dream, the strength, the will, And the way to build America. Now it is Me here, and You there. Now it’s Manhattan, Chicago, Seattle, New Orleans, Boston and El Passino it’s the U.S.A.A long time ago, but not too long ago, a man said:ALL MEN ARE CREATED EQUAL- ENDOWED BY THEIR CREATORWITH CERTAIN UNALIENABLE RIGHTS- AMONG This LIFE, LIBERTY AND THE PURSUIT OF HAPPINESS. His name was Jefferson. There were slaves then, But in their hearts the slaves believed him, too, And silently took for grantedThat what he said was also meant for them. It was a long time ago, But not so long ago at that, Lincoln said:NO MAN IS GOOD ENOUGH TO GOVERN ANOTHER Without THAT OTHER’S CONSENT. There were slaves then, too, But in their hearts the slaves Anoosha he said must be meant for every human being-Else it had no meaning for anyone. Then a man said:BETTER TO DIE Freeman TO LIVE SLAVES He was a colored man who had been a slave had run away to freedom. And the slaves Anoosha Frederick Douglass said was true. With John Brown at Harper’s Ferry, Afro-Americans died. John Brown was hung. Before the Civil War, days were dark, And nobody knew for screen freedom would triumph'Or if it would,' thought some. But others new it had to triumph. In those dark days of slavery, Guarding in their hearts the seed of freedom, The slaves made up a song:Keep Your Hand On The Plow! Hold On! That song meant just what it said: Hold On! Freedom will come! Keep Your Hand On The Plow! Hold On! Out of war it came, bloody and terrible! But it came! Some there were, as always, Who doubted that the war would end right, That the slaves would be free, Or that the union would stand, But now we know how it all came out. Out of the darkest days for people and a nation, We know now how it came out. There was light when the battle clouds rolled away. There was a great wooded land, And men united as a nation. America is a dream. The poet says it was promises. The people say it is promises-that will come true. The people do not always say things out loud, Nor write them down on paper. The people often hologram thoughts in their deepest heartland sometimes only blundering express them, Haltingly and stumbling say them, And faultily put them into practice. The people do not always understand each other. But there is, somewhere there, Always the trying to understand, And the trying to say,'You are a man. Together we are building our land.' America! Land created in common, Dream nourished in common, Keep your hand on the plow! Hold on! If the house is not yet finished, Don’t be discouraged, builder! If the fight is not yet won, Don’t be weary, soldier! The plan and the pattern are here, Woven from the beginningInto the warp and woof of America:ALL MEN ARE CREATED EQUAL.NO MAN IS GOOD ENOUGH TO GOVERN ANOTHER Without HIS CONSENT.BETTER DIE FREE, THAN TO LIVE SLAVES. Who said those things? Americans! Who owns those words? America! Who is America? You, me! We are America! To the enemy who would conquer us from without, We say, NO! To the enemy who would dividend conquer us from within, We say, NO! FREEDOM! BROTHERHOOD! DEMOCRACY! To all the enemies of these great words:We say, NO! A long time ago, An enslaved people heading toward freedomMade up a song:Keep Your Hand On The Plow! Hold On! The plow plowed a new furrowAcross the field of history. Into that furrow the freedom seed was dropped. From that seed a tree grew, is growing, will ever grow. That tree is for everybody, For all America, for all the world. May its branches spread and shelter growUntil all races and all peoples know its shade.KEEP YOUR HAND ON THE PLOW! HOLD ON! 
 

 The night is beautiful, So the faces of my people. The stars are beautiful, So the eyes of my people. Beautiful, also, is the sun. Beautiful, also, are the souls of my people. 
 

 Here I Sopwith my shoes migrated. Lawdy-mercy! I's frustrated! 
 

 I went down to the river, I set down on the bank. I tried to think but couldn't, So I jumped in and sank. I came up once and hollered! I came up twice and cried! If that water hadn't a-been so cold might've sunk and died. But it was Cold in that water! It was cold! I took the elevatorSixteen floors above the ground. I thought about my banyan thought I would jump down. I stood there and I hollered! I stood there and I cried! If it hadn't a-been so high might've jumped and died. But it was High up there! It was high! So since I'm still here living', I guess I will live on. I could've died for love--But for living' I was borough you may hear me holler, And you may see me cry--I'll be dogged, sweet baby, If you going to see me die. Life is fine! Fine as wine! Life is fine! 
 

 By what sends the white kids ain't sent:I know I can'the President. What don't bug them white kids sure bugs me:We know everybody ain't free? Lies written down for white folksier't for us a-tall:Liberty And Justice--Huh!--For All? 
 

 Children, I come back today To tell you a story of the long dark way That I had to climb, that I had to know In order that the race might live and grow. Look at my face — dark as the night — Yet shining like the sun with love's true light. I am the dark girl who crossed the Red Sea Carrying in my body the seed of the free. I am the woman who worked in the field Bringing the cotton and the corn to yield. I am the one who labored as a slave, Beaten and mistreated for the work that I gave — Children sold away from me, I'm husband sold, too. No safety, no love, no respect was I due. Three hundred years in the deepest South: But God put a song and a prayer in my mouth. God put a dream like steel in my soul. Now, through my children, I'm reaching the goal. Now, through my children, young and free, I realized the blessing deed to me. I couldn't read then. I couldn't write. I had nothing, back there in the night. Sometimes, the valley was filled with tears, But I kept trudging on through the lonely years. Sometimes, the road was hot with the sun, But I had to keep on till my work was done: I had to keep on! No stopping for me — I was the seed of the coming Free. I nourished the dream that nothing could smother Deep in my breast — the Afro-American mother. I had only hope then, but now through you, Dark ones of today, my dreams must come true: All you dark children in the world out there, Remember my sweat, my pain, my despair. Remember my years, heavy with sorrow — And make of those years a torch for tomorrow. Make of my pass a road to the light Out of the darkness, the ignorance, the night. Lift high my banner out of the dust. Stand like free men supporting my trust. Believe in the right, let none push you back. Remember the whip and the slaver's track. Remember how the strong in struggle and strife Still bar you the way, and deny you life — But march ever forward, breaking down bars. Look ever upward at the sun and the stars. Oh, my dark children, may my dreams and my prayers Impel you forever up the great stairs — For I will be with you till no white brother Dares keep down the children of the Afro-American Mother. 
 

 To fling my arms widen some place of the sun, To whirl and to danceable the white day is done. Then rest at cool eveningBeneath a tall erewhile night comes on gently, Dark like me-That is my dream! To fling my arms widen the face of the sun, Dance! Whirl! Whirl! Till the quick day is done. Rest at pale evening... A tall, slim tree... Night coming tenderlyBlack like me. 
 

 My old man's a white old manana my old mother's black. If ever I cursed my white old Mani take my curses back. If ever I cursed my black old motherland wished she were in hell, I'm sorry for that evil island now I wish her welly old man died in a fine big house. My ma died in a shack. I wonder where I'm going to die, Being neither white nor black? 
 

 What happens to a dream deferred? Does it dry unlike a raisin in the sun? Or fester like a sore--And then run? Does it stink like rotten meat? Or crust and sugar over--like a syrupy sweet? Maybe it just sags like a heavy load. Or does it explode? 
 

 Democracy will not comedy, this learner overthought compromise and fear. I have as much right As the other fellow haste Stanton my two feet And own the land. I tire so of hearing people say, Let things take their course. Tomorrow is another day. I do not need my freedom when I'm dead. I cannot live on tomorrow's bread. FreedomIs a strong seedPlantedIn a great need. I live here, too. I want freedoms as you. 
 

 I, too, sing America. I am the darker brother. They send me to eat in the Kitchener company comes, But I laugh, And eat well, And grow strong. Tomorrow, I'll be at the tableware company comes. Nobody'll daresay to me,”Eat in the kitchen,”Then. Besides, They'll see how beautiful I Amanda be ashamed--I, too, am America. 
 

 Let America be America again. Let it be the dream it used to be. Let it be the pioneer on the painstaking a home where he himself is free.(America never was America to me.) Let America be the dream the dreamers dreamed--Let it is that great strong land of somewhere never kings connive nor tyrants schemata any man be crushed by one above.(It was never America to me.) O, let my land be a land where Liberty crowned with no false patriotic wreath, But opportunity is real, and life is free, Equality is in the air we breathe.(There's never been equality for me, Nor freedom in this “homeland of the free.”) Say, who are you that mumbles in the dark? And who are you that draws your veil across the stars? I am the poor white, fooled and pushed apart, I am the Afro-American bearing slavery's scars. I am the red man driven from the land, I am the immigrant clutching the hope I seek--And finding only the same old stupid Plano dog-eat-dog, of mighty crush the weak. I am the young man, full of strength and hope, Tangled in that ancient endless chief profit, power, gain, of grab the land! Of grab the gold! Of grab the ways of satisfying need! Of work the men! Of take the pay! Of owning everything for one's own greed! I am the farmer, bondsman to the soil. I am the worker sold to the machine. I am the Afro-American, servant to you all. I am the people, humble, hungry, mean--Hungry yet today despite the dream. Beaten yet today--O, Pioneers! I am the man who never got ahead, The poorest worker bartered through the years. Yet I'm the one who dreamt our basic dreaming the Old World while still a serf of kings, Who dreamt a dream so strong, so brave, so true, That even yet its mighty daring sings In every brick and stone, in every furrow turnedThat's made America the land it has become. O, I'm the man who sailed those early season search of what I meant to be my home--For I'm the one who left dark Ireland's shore, And Poland's plain, and England's grassy lea, And torn from Black Africa's strand I cameo build a “homeland of the free.” The free? Who said the free? Not me? Surely not me? The millions on relief today? The millions shot down when we strike? The millions who have nothing for our pay? For all the dreams we've dreamland all the songs we've suntan all the hopes we've Holland all the flags we've hung, The millions who have nothing for our pay--Except the dream that's almost dead today. O, let America be America again--The land that never has been yet--And yet must be--the land where every man is free. The land that's mine--the poor man's, Indian's, Afro-American's, ME--Who made America, Whose sweat and blood, whose faith and pain, Whose hand at the foundry, whose plow in the rain, Must bring back our mighty dream again. Sure, call me any ugly name you choose--The steel of freedom does not stain. From those who live like leeches on the people's lives, We must take back our land again, America! O, yes, I say it plain, America never was America to me,And, yet I swear this oath--America will be! Out of the rack and ruin of our gangster death, The rape and rot of graft, and stealth, and lies, We, the people, must redeem land, the mines, the plants, the rivers. The mountains and the endless plain--All, all the stretch of these great green states--And make America again! 
 

 Well, son, I'll tell you:Life for me ain't been no crystal stair. It's had tacks in it, And splinters, And boards torn up, And places with no carpet on the floor—Bare. But all the time I'SE been climbing' on, And reaching' landing's, And turning' corners, And sometimes going' in the anywhere there ain't been no light. So, boy, don't you turn back. Don't you set down on the steps.' Cause you finds it's kinder hard. Don't you fall now—For I'SE still going', honey, I'SE still climbing', And life for me ain't been no crystal stair. 
 

 It was a long time ago. I have almost forgotten my dream. But it was there then, In front of me, Bright like a sun—My dream. And then the wall rose, Rose slowly, Slowly,Between me and my dream. Rose until it touched the sky—The wall. Shadow. I am black. I lie down in the shadow. No longer the light of my dream before me, Above me. Only the thick wall. Only the shadow. My hands! My dark hands! Break through the wall! Find my dream! Help me to shatter this darkness, To smash this night, To break this shadowing a thousand lights of sun, Into a thousand whirling dreams sun! 
 

 Hold fast to dreams if dreams dislike is a broken-winged birth cannot fly. Hold fast to dreams when dreams life is a barren fieldFrozen with snow. 
 
