
 The dark lantern of world sadness has cast its shadow upon the land. We stumble into our misery on leaden feet. Our minds seek to comprehend the unknowable and our hearts seek measure a tomorrow without the Sunshine Princess. Her hands which had held bright tiaras and jewelled crowns, Also stroked the faces of pain along Angola's dusty roads. She was born to the privilege of plenty, she communed with the needy without a show of pompous piety. Glowing in Bosnia, radiant at glittering balls, We came to love her and claim her for her grace and accessibility. Luminous always. We smiled to see her enter and grinned at her happiness. Now the world we made is forever changed… Made smaller, meaner, less colorful. Yet, because she did live, Because she ventured life and confronted change, She has left us a legacy. We also may dare… To care for some other than ourselves and those who look like us. And maybe we can take a lesson from herald try to live our livest passion, compassion, humor and grace.Goodbye, Sunshine Princess. 
 

 My Fathers sit on benches their flesh counts every plank the slats leave dents of darkness deep in their withered flanks. They nod like broken candles all waxed and burnt profound they say 'It's understanding that makes the world go round.' There in those pleated faces I see the auction block the chains and slavery's cofflesthe whip and lash and stock. My Fathers speak in voices that shred my fact and sound they say 'It's our submission that makes the world go round.' They used the finest cunning their naked wits and wiles the lowly Uncle Commingled Aunt Jemima's smiles. They've laughed to shield their crying then shuffled through their dreams and stepped 'n' fetched a country to write the blues with screams. I understand their meaning it could and did derive from living on the edge of deathtrap kept my race alive. 
 

 A Rock, A River, A Tree Hosts to species long since departed, Mark the mastodon. The dinosaur, who left dry tokens their sojourn hereon our planet floor, Any broad alarm of their hastening dooms lost in the gloom of dust and ages. But today, the Rock cries out to us, clearly, forcefully, Come, you may stand upon back and face your distant destiny, But seek no haven in my shadow. I will give you no hiding place down here. You, created only a little lower tranche angels, have crouched too long the bruising darkness, Have lain too Boniface down in ignorance. Your mouths spelling forearmed for slaughter. The rock cries out today, you may stand on me, But do not hide your face. Across the wall of the world, A river sings a beautiful song, Come rest here by my side. Each of you a bordered country, Delicate and strangely made proud, Yet thrusting perpetually under siege. Your armed struggles for profitable left collars of waste upon shore, currents of debris upon my breast. Yet, today I call you to my riverside, If you will study war no more. Come, clad in peace and I will sing the songster Creator gave to me when And the tree and stone were one. Before cynicism was a bloody sear across your Broward when you yet knew you still knew nothing. The river sings and sings on. There is a true yearning to respond tithe singing river and the wise rock. So say the Asian, the Hispanic, the Jew, The African and Native American, the Sioux, The Catholic, the Muslim, the French, the Greek, The Irish, the Rabbi, the Priest, the Sheikh, The Gay, the Straight, the Preacher, The privileged, the homeless, the teacher. They hear. They all hearth speaking of the tree. Today, the first and last of every trespass to humankind. Come to me, here beside the river. Plant yourself beside me, here beside the river. Each of you, descendant of some passed traveler, has been paid for. You, who gave me my first name, You Pawnee, Apache and Seneca, You Cherokee Nation, who rested with me, Then forced on bloody feet, Left me to the employment of other seekers- Desperate for gain, starving for gold. You, the Turk, the Swede, the German, the Scot... You the Ashanti, the Yoruba, the GRU, Bought, sold, stolen, arriving at a nightmarePraying for a dream. Here, root yourselves beside me. I am the tree planted by the river, Which will not be moved. I, the rock, I the river, I the tree am yours- your passages have been paid.Lift your faces, you have a piercing needful this bright morning dawning for you. History, despite its wrenching pain, Cannot be unlived, and if faced with courage, Need not be lived again.Lift your eyes months day breaking for you. Give birth against the dream. Women, children, men, Take it into the palms of your hands. Mold it into the shape of your most Private need. Sculpt it intone image of your most public self.Lift your hearts. Each new hour holds new chancellor new beginnings. Do not be wedded forever fear, yoked eternally brutishness. The horizon leans forward, Offering you space to place new steps of change. Here, on the pulse of this fine Dayton may have the courage look up and out upon me, The rock, the river, the tree, your country. No less to Midas than the mendicant. No less to you now than the mastodon then. Here on the pulse of this new Dayton may have the grace to look up and outland into your sister's eyes, Into your brother's face, your countryman say simpler simplicity hope Good morning. 
 

 I start noways, raining poison on cathedrals, melting Stars of David into golden faucets to be lighted by lamps shaded by human skin. I set no store on the strange lands, send no missionaries beyond my borders, to plunder secret sand barter souls. Theysay you took my manhood,Mother. Come sit on my Lapland tell me, what do you want me to Sarto them, just before I annihilate their ignorance ? 
 

 Byways and bygone lone nights long Sun rays and sea waveband star and stoneManless and friendless No cave my homes is my torture long nights, lone 
 

 Dancing' the funky chickenEatin' ribs and tipsDiggin' all the latest sounds drinking' gin in sips. Puttin' down that do-ragTighten' up my 'prewrapping' up in Blackness Don't I shine and glow? Hearin' Stevie Undercooking' beans and region' to the operaCheckin' out Leonine Price. Get down, Jesse Jacksonian on, Alvin Palatal, Miss Barbara JordanGroove, Miss Pearlie Bailey. Now ain't they bad? An ain't they Black? An ain't they Black? An' ain't they Bad? An ain't they bad? An' ain't they Black? An' ain't they fine? Black like the hour of the eighteen your love turns and wriggles close to your sidetrack as the earth which has given birth nations, and when all else is gone will abide. Bad as the storm that leaps raging from the heavensBringing the welcome rainbow as the sun burning orange hot at middayLifting the waters again. Arthur Ashe on the tennis courtMohammed Ali in the ring Andre Watts and Andrew YoungBlack men doing their thing. Dressing in purples and pinks and greensExotic as rum and CokesLiving our lives with flash and Sylvain't we colorful folks? Now ain't we bad? An' ain't we Black? An' ain't we Black? An' ain't we bad? An' ain't we bad? An' ain't we Black? An' ain't we fine? 
 

 One foot down, then hop! It's hot.  Good things for the ones that's got. Another jump, now to the left.  Everybody for himself. In the air, now both feet down.  Since you black, don't stick around. Food is gone, the rent is due, Curse and cry and then jump two. All the people out of work, Hold for three, then twist and jerk. Cross the line, they count you out.  That's what hopping's all about. Both feet flat, the game is done. They think I lost. I think I won. 
 

 Glory falls around us as we sob a dirge of desolation on the Cross and hatred is the ballast of the rock which his upon our necks and underfoot. We have woven robes of silk and clothed our nakedness with tapestry. From crawling on this murky planet's floor we soar beyond the birds and through the clouds and edge our ways from hate and blind despair and bring horror to our brothers, and to our sisters cheer. We grow despite the horror that we feed upon our own tomorrow. We grow. 
 

 When I think about myself, I almost laugh myself to death, My life has been one great big joke, A dance that's walked A song that's spoke, I laugh so hard I almost choke When I think about myself. Sixty years in these folks' world The child I work for calls me girl I say 'Yes ma'am' for working's sake. Too proud to bend Too poor to break, I laugh until my stomach ache, When I think about myself. My folks can make me split my side, I laughed so hard I nearly died, The tales they tell, sound just like lying, They grow the fruit, But eat the rind, I laugh until I start to crying, When I think about my folks. 
 

 A Last love, proper in conclusion, should snip the wings forbidding further flight. But I, now, reft of that confusion, am lifted upland speeding toward the light. 
 

 There's a long-legged girl in San Francisco by the Golden Gate. She said she'd give me all I wanted but I just couldn't wait. I started topics em up and Latin em down, Pickin em up and Latin em down, Pickin em up and Latin em down, gettin to the next townBaby. There's a pretty Browning Birmingham. Boys, she little and cute but when she is like to tied me down had to grab my suit and started topics em up and Latin em down, Pickin em up and Latin em down, Pickin em up and Latin em down, getting to the next townBaby. I met that lovely Detroit lady and thought my time had combat just before I said “I do”I said “I got to run” and started topics em up and Latin em down, Pickin em up and Latin em down, Pickin em up and Latin em down, getting to the next townBaby. There ain't no words for what I feel about a pretty facet if I stay I just might miss prettier one some place started topics em up and Latin em down, Pickin em up and Latin em down, Pickin em up and Latin em down, getting to the next townBaby. 
 

 She lay, skin down in the moist dirt, the canebrake rustling with the whispers of leaves, and loud longing of hounds and the ransack of hunters crackling the near branches. She muttered, lifting her head a nod toward freedom, I shall not, I shall not be moved. She gathered her babies, their tears slick as oil on black faces, their young eyes canvassing mornings of madness. Mother, is Master going to sell you from us tomorrow? Yes. Unless you keep walking more and talking less. Yes. Unless the keeper of our lives releases me from all commandments. Yes. And your lives, never mine to live, will be executed upon the killing floor of innocents. Unless you match my heart and words, saying with me, I shall not be moved. In Virginia tobacco fields, leaning into the curve of Steinway pianos, along Arkansas roads, in the red hills of Georgia, into the palms of her chained hands, she cried against calamity, You have tried to destroy me and though I perish daily, I shall not be moved. Her universe, often summarized into one black body falling finally from the tree to her feet, made her cry each time into a new voice. All my past hastens to defeat, and strangers claim the glory of my love, Iniquity has bound me to his bed.yet, I must not be moved. She heard the names, swirling ribbons in the wind of history: nigger, nigger bitch, heifer, mammy, property, creature, ape, baboon, whore, hot tail, thing, it. She said, But my description cannot fit your tongue, for I have a certain way of being in this world, and I shall not, I shall not be moved. No angel stretched protecting wings above the heads of her children, fluttering and urging the winds of reason into the confusions of their lives. The sprouted like young weeds, but she could not shield their growth from the grinding blades of ignorance, nor shape them into symbolic apiaries. She sent them away, underground, overland, in coaches and shoeless. When you learn, teach. When you get, give. As for me, I shall not be moved. She stood in mid ocean, seeking dry land. She searched God's face. Assured, she placed her fire of service on the altar, and though clothed in the finery of faith, when she appeared at the temple door, no sign welcomed Black Grandmother, Enter here. Into the crashing sound, into wickedness, she cried, No one, no, nor no one a million ones dare deny me God, I go forth along, and stand as ten thousand. The Divine upon my right impels me to pull forever at the latch on Freedom's gate. The Holy Spirit upon my left leads my feet without ceasing into the camp of the righteous and into the tents of the free. These mother faces, lemon-yellow, plum-purple, honey-brown, have grimaced and twisted down a pyramid for years. She is Sheba the Sojourner, Harriet and Zora, Mary Bethune and Angela, Annie to Serbia. She stands before the abortion clinic, confounded by the lack of choices. In the Welfare line, reduced to the pity of handouts. Ordained in the pulpit, shielded by the mysteries. In the operating room, husbanding life. In the choir loft, holding God in her throat. On lonely street corners, hawking her body. In the classroom, loving the children to understanding. Centered on the world's stage, she sings to her loves and beloveds, to her foes and detractors: However I am perceived and deceived, however my ignorance and conceits, lay aside your fears that I will be undone, for I shall not be moved. 
 

 BECAUSE we have forgotten our ancestors, our children no longer give us honor.BECAUSE we have lost the path our ancestors cleared kneeling in perilous undergrowth, our children cannot find their way.BECAUSE we have banished the God of our ancestors, our children cannot pray.BECAUSE the old wails of our ancestors have faded beyond our hearing, our children cannot hear us crying.BECAUSE we have abandoned our wisdom of mothering and fathering, our befuddled children give birth to children they neither want nor understand.BECAUSE we have forgotten how to love, the adversary is within our gates, a holds us up to the mirror of the world shouting,'Regard the loveless'Therefore we pledge to bind ourselves to one another, to embrace our lowliest, to keep company with our loneliest, to educate our illiterate, to feed our starving, to clothe our ragged, to do all good things, knowing that we are more than keepers of our brothers and sisters. We ARE our brothers and sisters.IN HONOR of those who toiled and implored God with golden tongues, and in gratitude to the same God who brought us out of hopeless desolation, we make this pledge. 
 

 Preacher, don't send moorhen I diet some big ghetto in the sky where rats eat cats of the leopard type and Sunday brunches grits and tripe. I've known those rats've seen them kill and grits I've had would make a hill, or maybe a mountain, so what I need from you on Sundays a different creed. Preacher, please don'tpromise me streets of gold and milk for free. I stopped all milk at four years old and once I'm dead won't need gold. I'd call a place pure paradise where families are loyal and strangers are nice, where the music is jazz and the season is fall. Promise me that or nothing at all. 
 

 In my young years I took pride in the fact that luck was called a lady. In fact, there were so few public acknowledgments of the female presence that I felt personally honored whenever nature and large ships were referred to as feminine. But as I matured, I began to resent being considered a sister to a changeling as fickle as luck, as aloof as an ocean, and as frivolous as nature. The phrase 'A woman always has the right to change her mind' played so aptly into the negative image of the female that I made myself a victim to an unwavering decision. Even if I made an inane and stupid choice, I stuck by it rather than 'be like a woman and change my mind.' Being a woman is hard work. Not without joy and even ecstasy, but still relentless, unending work. Becoming an old female may require only being born with certain genitalia, inheriting long-living genes and the fortune not to be run over by an out-of-control truck, but to become and remain a woman command the existence and employment of genius. The woman who survives intact and happy must be at once tender and tough. She must have convinced herself, or be in the unending process of convincing herself, that she, her values, and her choices are important. In a time a ND world where males hold sway and control, the pressure upon women to yield their rights-of-way is tremendous. And it is under those very circumstances that the woman's toughness must be in evidence. She must resist considering herself a lesser version of her male counterpart. She is not a sculptress, poetess, authoress, Jewess, Negress, or even (now rare) in university parlance a restores. If she is the thing, then for her own sense of self and for the education of the ill-informed she must insist with rectitude in being the thing and in being called the thing. A rose by any other name may smell as sweet, but a woman called by a devaluing name will only be weakened by the misnomer. She will need to prize her tenderness and be able to display it at appropriate times in order to prevent toughness from gaining total authority and to avoid becoming a mirror image of those men who value power above life, and control over love. It is imperative that a woman keep her sense of humor intact and at the ready. She must see, even if only in secret, that she is the funniest, looniest woman in her world, which she should also see as being the most absurd world of all time. It has been said that laughter is therapeutic and amiability lengthens the life span. Women should be tough, tender, laugh as much as possible, and live long lives. The struggle for equality continues unabated, and the woman warrior who is armed with wit and courage will be among the first to celebrate victory. 
 

 Petulant priests, greedy centurions, and one million incensed gestures stand between your love and me. Your agape sacrifices reduced to colored glass, vapid penance, and the tedium of ritual. Your footprints yet mark the crest of billowing seas but your joy fades upon the tablets of ordained prophets. Visit us again, Savior. Your children, burdened with disbelief, blinded by a patina of wisdom, carom down this vale offer. We cry for you although we have lost your name. 
 

 The Health-Food Diner No sprouted wheat and soda shorthand Brussels in a cake, Carrot straw and spinach raw, (Today, I need a steak). Not thick brown rice and rice dilator mushrooms creamed on toast, Turnips mashed and parsnips hashed, (I'm dreaming of a roast). Health-food folks around the workfare thinned by anxious zeal, They look for help in seafood kelp(I count on breaded veal). No smoking signs, raw mustard greens, Zucchini by the ton, Uncooked kale and bodies failure sure to make me runtoLoins of pork and chicken highland standing rib, so prime, Pork chops brown and fresh ground round(I crave them all the time). Irish stews and boiled corned beef and hot dogs by the scores, or any place that saves a spaceport smoking carnivores. 
 

 They have spent their content of simpering, holding their lips this and that way, winding the lines between their brows. Old folk sallow their bellies to jiggle like slow tambourines. The hollers rise up and spillover any way they want. When old folks laugh, they free the world. They turn slowly, slyly knowing the best and the worst of remembering. Saliva glistens in the corners of their mouths, their heads wobble on brittle necks, but their laps are filled with memories. When old folks laugh, they consider the promise of dear painless death, and generously forgive life for happening to them. 
 

 Tremors of your network cause kings to disappear. Your open mouth in anger makes nations bow in fear. Your bombs can change the seasons, obliterate the spring. What more do you long for ? Why are you suffering ? You control the human lives in Rome and Timbuktu. Lonely nomads wandering owe Tel star to you. Seas shift at your bidding, your mushrooms fill the sky. Why are you unhappy ? Why do your children cry ? They kneel alone in terror with dread in every glance. Their nights ['rights' ? — Shrift night lesser] are threatened daily by a grim inheritance. You dwell in whitened castles with deep and poisoned moats and cannot hear the curses which fill your children's throats. 
 

 When you see me sitting quietly, Like a sack left on the shelf, Don’t think I need your chattering. I’m listening to myself. Hold! Stop! Don’t pity me! Hold! Stop your sympathy! Understanding if you got it, Otherwise I’ll do without it! When my bones are stiff and aching, And my feet won’t climb the stair, I will only ask one favor:Don’t bring me no rocking chair. When you see me walking, stumbling, Don’t study and get it wrong.‘Cause tired don’t mean Lapland every goodbye ain’t gone. I’m the same person I was back then, A little less hair, a little less chin, A lot less lungs and much less wind. But ain’t I lucky I can still breathe in. 
 

 Televised news turns half-used day into waste of desolation. If nothing wondrous preceded the catastrophic announcements, certainly nothing will follow, save the sad-eyed faces of bony children, distended bellies making mock at their starvation. Why are they alwaysBlack ? Whom do they await ? The lamb-chop flesh reeks and cannot beaten. Even the green peas roll on my plate unmolested. Their innocence matched by the helpless hope in the children's faces. Why do Black children hope ? Who will bring them peas and lamb chop sand one more morning ? 
 

 When great trees fall, rocks on distant hills shudder, lions hunker downing tall grasses, and even elephant slumber after safety. When great trees fallen forests, small things recoil into silence, their senses eroded beyond fear. When great souls die,the surrounding air become slight, rare, sterile. We breathe, briefly. Our eyes, briefly, see with hurtful clarity. Our memory, suddenly sharpened, examines,gnaws on kind words unsaid, promised walks never taken. Great souls die an dour reality, bound totem, takes leave of us. Our souls, dependent upon their nurture, now shrink, wizened. Our minds, formed and informed by their radiance, fall away. We are not so much maddened as reduced to the unutterable ignorance of dark, cold caves. And when great souls die, after a period peace blooms, slowly and always irregularly.  Spaces fill with a kind of soothing electric vibration. Our senses, restored, never to be the same, whisper to us. They existed.  They existed. We can be.  Be and begetter.  For they existed. 
 

 A free bird leaps on the back the wind and floats downstream Till the current ends and dips his wing In the orange suns Raymond dares to claim the sky. But a BIRD that stalks down his narrow cage Can seldom see through his bars of rages wings are clipped and his feet are tied he opens his throat to sing.The caged bird sings with a fearful trillion things unknown but longed for Spillane his tune is heard on the distant hill forth caged bird sings of freedom. The free bird thinks of another breezed the trade winds soft through sighing Streisand the fat worms waiting on a dawn-brightLawn, and he names the sky his own. But a caged BIRD stands on the grave of dreams shadow shouts on a nightmare screams wings are clipped and his feet are tied he opens his throat to sing.The caged bird sings with fearful trill of things unknown longed for still and histone is heard on the distant hilltop the caged bird sings of freedom. 
 

 Shadows on the wallabies down the Hallie doesn't frighten me at all Bad dogs barking Ludwig ghosts in a bloodline doesn't frighten me at all Mean old Mother Guidelines on the loosely don't frighten me at all Dragons breathing flame my counterpaneThat doesn't frighten me at all. I go bookmaker them shoot make runway they run won't cross they fly just smiley go wild Life doesn't frighten me at all. Tough guys nightfall alone at nightlife doesn't frighten me at all. Panthers in the parkStrangers in the dark No, they don't frighten me at all. That new classroom whereby all pull my hair(Kiss little girlish their hair in curls)They don't frighten me at all. Don't show me frogs and snakes listen for my scream, If I'm afraid at Allie's only in my dreams. I've got a magic hardhat I keep up my sleeve can walk the ocean flooring never have to breathe. Life doesn't frighten me at allNot at all. Life doesn't frighten me at all. 
 

 She came home running back to the mothering blackness deep in the smothering blackness white tears icicle gold plains of her face She came home running came down creeping here to the black arms waiting now to the warm heart waiting rime of alien dreams defrosts her rich brown face She came down creeping came home blameless black yet as Hagar’s daughter tall as was Sheba’s daughter threats of northern winds die on the desert’s face She came home blameless 
 

 FOR DAVID P—The eye follows, the landslips upward, creases down, forms The gentle buttocks of a young Giant. In the nestle, Old adobe bricks, washed of Whiteness, paled to umber, Await another century. Star Jasmine and old vines claim upon the ghosted land, Then quiet pools whisper Private childhood secrets. Flush on inner cottage walls Antiquities faces, Used to the gelid breath old manors, glare disdainfully Over breached time. Around and through these Cold phantasmatalities, He walks, insisting the languid air, Activity, music, A generosity of graces. His lupine fields spurn deceit and agile poppies dance In golden riot.  Each day isFulminant, exploding brightly Under the gaze of his exquisite Sires, frozen in the famed paint Of dead masters. Audacious Sunlight casts defiance At their feet. 
 

 FOR Bailey were entwined in red rings Of blood and loneliness before The first snows hellebore muddy rivers seeded clouds Above a virgin forest, and Men ran naked, blue and black Skinned into the warm embraces Of Sheba, Eve and Lilith. I was your sister. You left me to force strangers Into brother molds, exacting Taxation they developed or could ever pay. You fought to die, thinking In destruction lies the seed Of birth. You may be right. I will remember silent walks in Southern woods and long talks In low voicesShielding meaning from the big ears Of over curious adults. You may be right.  Your slow return bioregions of terror and bloodstreams, races my heart. I hear again the laughter Of children and see fireflies Bursting tiny explosions in An Arkansas twilight. 
 

 There is no warning rattle at the door nor heavy feet to stomp the foyer boards.  Safe in the dark prison, I know that light slides over the fingered work of a toothless woman in Pakistan. Happy prints fan invisible time are illumined.  My mouth agape rejects the solid air and lungs hold. The invader takes direction and seeps through the plaster walls.  It is at my chamber, entering the keyhole, pushing through the padding of the door.  I cannot scream. A bone of fear clogs my throat. It is upon me. It is sunrise, with Hope its arrogant rider. My mind, formerly quiescent in its snug encasement, is strained to look upon their rapturous visages, to let them enter even into me.  I am forced outside myself to mount the light and ride joined with Hope. Through all the bright hours I cling to expectation, until darkness comes to reclaim MCAS its own. Hope fades, day is gone into its irredeemable place and I am thrown back into the familiar bonds of disconsolation. Gloom crawls around lapping lasciviously between my toes, at my ankles, and it sucks the strands of my hair. It forgives my heady fling with Hope. I adjoined again into its greedy arms. 
 

 Beloveds, now we know that we know nothing that our bright and shining star can slip away from our fingertips like a puff of summer windWithout notice, our dear love can escape our doting embracing our songs among the stars and walk our dances across the face of the mooning the instant we learn that Michael is gone we know nothing No clocks can tell our time and no oceans can rush our tinsmith the abrupt absence of our treasureThough we our many, each of us is achingly alonePiercingly lonely when we confess our confusion can we remember that he was a gift to us, and we did have him He came to us from the Creator, trailing creativity in abundanceDespite the anguish of life he was sheathed in mother love and family love and survived and did more than that He thrived with passion and compassion, humor and style had whether we knew who he was or did not know, he was ours, and we were his had beautiful, delighting our eyes He raked his hat slant over his brow and took a pose on his toes for all of us, and we laughed and stomped our feet for him were enchanted with his passion because he held nothing He gave us all he had been givenToday in Tokyo, beneath the Eiffel Tower, in Ghana's Black star Square, in Johannesburg, in Pittsburgh, in Birmingham, Alabama and Birmingham England, we are missing Michael Jackson we do know that we had human we are the world. 
 

 You declare you see me dimly through a glass which will not shine, though I stand before you boldly, trim in rank and marking time. You do own to hear me faintly as a whisper out of range, while my drums beat out the message and the rhythms never change. Equality, and I will be free. Equality, and I will be free. You announce my ways are wanton, that I fly from man to man, but if I'm just a shadow to you, could you ever understand ? We have lived a painful history, we know the shameful past, but I keep on marching forward, and you keep on coming last. Equality, and I will be free. Equality, and I will be free. Take the blinders from your vision, take the padding from your ears, and confess you've heard me crying, and admit you've seen my tears. Hear the tempo so compelling, hear the blood throb in my veins. Yes, my drums are beating nightly, and the rhythms never change. Equality, and I will be free. Equality, and I will be free. 
 

 I note the obvious difference sin the human family. Some of us are serious, some thrive on comedy. Some declare their lives are lived as true profundity, and others claim they really live the real reality. The variety of our skin tone scan confuse, bemuse, delight, brown and pink and beige and purple, tan and blue and white. I've sailed upon the seven sea sand stopped in every land, I've seen the wonders of the world not yet one common man. I know ten thousand women called Jane and Mary Jane, but I've not seen any two who really were the same. Mirror twins are different although their features jibe, and lovers think quite different thoughts while lying side by side. We love and lose in China, we weep on England's moors, and laugh and moan in Guinea, and thrive on Spanish shores. We seek success in Finland, are born and die in Maine. In minor ways we differ, in major we're the same. I note the obvious differences between each sort and type, but we are more alike, my friends, than we are unalike. We are more alike, my friends, than we are unalike. We are more alike, my friends, than we are unalike. 
 

 Curtains forcing their will against the wind, children sleep, exchanging dreams with seraphic. The city drags itself awake on subway straps; and, an alarm, awake as a rumor of war, lie stretching into dawn, unasked and unheeded. 
 

 We, this people, on a small and lonely planet Traveling through casual space Past aloof stars, across the way of indifferent suns To a destination where all signs tell us It is possible and imperative that we learn A brave and startling truth And when we come to it To the day of peacemaking When we release our fingers From fists of hostility And allow the pure air to cool our palms When we come to it When the curtain falls on the minstrel show of hate And faces suited with scorn are scrubbed clean When battlefields and coliseum No longer rake our unique and particular sons and daughters Up with the bruised and bloody grass To lie in identical plots in foreign soil When the rapacious storming of the churches The screaming racket in the temples have ceased When the pennants are waving gaily When the banners of the world tremble Stoutly in the good, clean breeze When we come to it When we let the rifles fall from our shoulders And children dress their dolls in flags of truce When land mines of death have been removed And the aged can walk into evenings of peace When religious ritual is not perfumed By the incense of burning flesh And childhood dreams are not kicked awake By nightmares of abuse When we come to it Then we will confess that not the Pyramids With their stones set in mysterious perfection Nor the Gardens of Babylon Hanging as eternal beauty In our collective memory Not the Grand Canyon Kindled into delicious color By Western sunsets Nor the Danube, flowing its blue soul into Europe Not the sacred peak of Mount Fuji Stretching to the Rising Sun Neither Father Amazon nor Mother Mississippi who, without favor, Nurture all creatures in the depths and on the shores These are not the only wonders of the world When we come to it We, this people, on this minuscule and kithless globe Who reach daily for the bomb, the blade and the dagger Yet who petition in the dark for tokens of peace We, this people on this mote of matter In whose mouths abide cankerous words Which challenge our very existence Yet out of those same mouths Come songs of such exquisite sweetness That the heart falters in its labor And the body is quieted into awe We, this people, on this small and drifting planet Whose hands can strike with such abandon That in a twinkling, life is sapped from the living Yet those same hands can touch with such healing, irresistible tenderness That the haughty neck is happy to bow And the proud back is glad to bend Out of such chaos, of such contradiction We learn that we are neither devils nor divines When we come to it We, this people, on this wayward, floating body Created on this earth, of this earth Have the power to fashion for this earth A climate where every man and every woman Can live freely without sanctimonious piety Without crippling fear When we come to it, We must confess that we are the possible We are the miraculous, the true wonder of this world That is when, and only when We come to it. 
 

 Some cliché folks don't know the facts, posin' and preening'and putting' on acts, stretchin' their backs. They move into condo sup over the ranks, pawn their souls to the local banks. Buying big cars they can't afford, ridin' around townactin' bored. If they want to learn how to live life right they ought to study me on Saturday night. My job at the plantain't the biggest bet, but I pay my bill sand stay out of debt. I get my hair done for my own self's sake, so I don't have to pick and I don't have to rake. Take the church money out and head cross Tonto my friend girl's house where we plan our round. We meet our men and go to a joint where the music is blue and to the point. Folks write about me. They just can't see how I work all week at the factory. Then get spruced upland laugh and danced turn away from worry with sassy glance. They accuse me of living'from day to day, but who are they kidding'? So are they. My life ain't heaven but it sure ain't hell. I'm not on top but I call it swell if I'm able to work and get paid right and have the luck to be Blacken a Saturday night. 
 

 Your hands easy weight, teasing the bees hived in my hair, your smile at the slope of my cheek. On the occasion, you press above me, glowing, spouting readiness, mystery rapes my reasoned you have withdrawn your self and the magic, when only the smell of your love lingers between my breasts, then, only then, can I greedily consume your presence. 
 

 When you come to me, unbidden, Beckoning met long-ago rooms, Where memories lie. Offering me, as to a child, an attic, Gatherings of days too few. Baubles of stolen kisses. Trinkets of borrowed loves. Trunks of secret words, I CRY. 
 

 They went home and told their wives, that never once in all their lives, had they known a girl like me, But... They went home. They said my house was licking clean, no word I spoke was ever mean, I had an air of mystery, But... They went home. My praises were on all men's lips, they liked my smile, my wit, my hips, they'd spend one night, or two or three. But... 
 

 A Rock, A River, A Tree Hosts to species long since departed, Mark the mastodon. The dinosaur, who left dry tokens their sojourn hereon our planet floor, Any broad alarm of their hastening dooms lost in the gloom of dust and ages. But today, the Rock cries out to us, clearly, forcefully, Come, you may stand upon back and face your distant destiny, But seek no haven in my shadow. I will give you no hiding place down here. You, created only a little lower tranche angels, have crouched too long the bruising darkness, Have lain too Boniface down in ignorance. Your mouths spelling forearmed for slaughter. The rock cries out today, you may stand on me, But do not hide your face. Across the wall of the world, A river sings a beautiful song, Come rest here by my side. Each of you a bordered country, Delicate and strangely made proud, Yet thrusting perpetually under siege. Your armed struggles for profitable left collars of waste upon shore, currents of debris upon my breast. Yet, today I call you to my riverside, If you will study war no more. Come, clad in peace and I will sing the songster Creator gave to me when And the tree and stone were one. Before cynicism was a bloody sear across your Broward when you yet knew you still knew nothing. The river sings and sings on. There is a true yearning to respond tithe singing river and the wise rock. So say the Asian, the Hispanic, the Jew, The African and Native American, the Sioux, The Catholic, the Muslim, the French, the Greek, The Irish, the Rabbi, the Priest, the Sheikh, The Gay, the Straight, the Preacher, The privileged, the homeless, the teacher. They hear. They all hearth speaking of the tree. Today, the first and last of every trespass to humankind. Come to me, here beside the river. Plant yourself beside me, here beside the river. Each of you, descendant of some passed traveler, has been paid for. You, who gave me my first name, You Pawnee, Apache and Seneca, You Cherokee Nation, who rested with me, Then forced on bloody feet, Left me to the employment of other seekers- Desperate for gain, starving for gold. You, the Turk, the Swede, the German, the Scot... You the Ashanti, the Yoruba, the GRU, Bought, sold, stolen, arriving at a nightmarePraying for a dream. Here, root yourselves beside me. I am the tree planted by the river, Which will not be moved. I, the rock, I the river, I the tree am yours- your passages have been paid.Lift your faces, you have a piercing needful this bright morning dawning for you. History, despite its wrenching pain, Cannot be unlived, and if faced with courage, Need not be lived again.Lift your eyes months day breaking for you. Give birth against the dream. Women, children, men, Take it into the palms of your hands. Mold it into the shape of your most Private need. Sculpt it intone image of your most public self.Lift your hearts. Each new hour holds new chancellor new beginnings. Do not be wedded forever fear, yoked eternally brutishness. The horizon leans forward, Offering you space to place new steps of change. Here, on the pulse of this fine Dayton may have the courage look up and out upon me, The rock, the river, the tree, your country. No less to Midas than the mendicant. No less to you now than the mastodon then. Here on the pulse of this new Dayton may have the grace to look up and outland into your sister's eyes, Into your brother's face, your countryman say simpler simplicity hope Good morning. 
 

 Beloved, In what other lives or landscape I knew your Lipscomb Handsome Laughter braveIrreverent. Those sweet excesses that do adore. What surety is thereat we will meet again, On other worlds someFuture time undated. I defy my body's haste. Without the promise one more sweet encounter will not deign to die. 
 

 There are some nights when sleep plays coy, aloof and disdainful. And all the wiles that I employ to win its service to my sidearm useless as wounded pride, and much more painful. 
 

 Pretty women wonder where my secret lies. I'm not cute or built to suit a fashion model's size when I start to tell them, They think I'm telling lies. I say, It's in the reach of my arms span of my hips, The stride of my step, The curl of my lips. I'm a womanPhenomenally. Phenomenal woman, That's me. I walk into a roomiest as cool as you please, And to a man, The fellows stand fall down on their knees. Then they swarm around me, A hive of honey bees. I say, It's the fire in my eyes, And the flash of my teeth, The swing in my waist, And the joy in my feet. I'm a womanPhenomenally. Phenomenal woman, That's me. Men themselves have wonderedWhat they see in me. They try so much they can't touchy inner mystery. When I try to show whether say they still can't see. I say, It's in the arch of my back, The sun of my smile, The ride of my breasts, The grace of my style. I'm a womanPhenomenally. Phenomenal woman, That's me. Now you understands why my head's not bowed. I don't shout or jump about have to talk real loud. When you see me passing It ought to make you proud. I say, It's in the click of my heels, The bend of my hair, the palm of my hand, The need of my care,'Cause I'm a womanPhenomenally. Phenomenal woman, That's me. 
 

 I've got the children to tenth clothes to mentee floor to Mouthe food to shorten the chicken to Blythe baby to dry got company to seethe garden to weed've got shirts to pressure tots to dressage can to be cut gotta clean up this Hutton see about the sickened the cotton to pick. Shine on me, sunshineRain on me, rainfall softly, dewdrops cool my brow again. Storm, blow me from herewith your fiercest Winslet me float across the sky'Til I can rest again. Fall gently, snowflakesCover me with Whitehall icy kisses anklet me rest tonight. Sun, rain, curving mountain, oceans, leaf and stones shine, moon glowy're all that I can call my own. 
 

 The free bird leap son the back of the wind and floats downstream till the current end sand dips his wing sin the orange sun ray sand dares to claim the sky. But a bird that stalks down his narrow cage can seldom see through his bars of rage his wings are clipped and his feet are tied so he opens his throat to sing.The caged bird sings with fearful trill of the things unknown but longed for still and his tune is hairdo the distant hill for the caged bird sings of freedom free bird thinks of another breeze and the trade winds soft through the sighing tree sand the fat worms waiting on a dawn-bright lawn and he names the sky his own. But a caged bird stands on the grave of dreams his shadow shouts on a nightmare scream his wings are clipped and his feet are tied so he opens his throat to single caged bird sings with a fearful trill of things unknown but longed for still and his tune is hairdo the distant hill for the caged bird sings of freedom. 
 

 The night has been long, The wound has been deep, The pit has been dark, And the walls have been steep. Under a dead blue sky on a distant beach, I was dragged by my braids just beyond your reach. Your hands were tied, your mouth was bound, You couldn't even call out my name. You were helpless and so was I, But unfortunately throughout history've worn a badge of shame. I say, the night has been long, The wound has been deep, The pit has been Garland the walls have been steep. But today, voices of old spirit soundcheck to us in words profound, Across the years, across the centuries, Across the oceans, and across the seas. They say, draw near to one another, Save your race. You have been paid for in a distant place, The old ones remind us that slavery's chainsaw paid for our freedom again and again. The night has been long, The pit has been deep, The night has been dark, And the walls have been steep. The tells we have lived through and live through still, Have sharpened our senses and toughened our will. The night has been long. This morning I look through your anguish Right down to your soul. I know that with each other we can make ourselves whole. I look through the posture and past your disguise, And see your love for family in your big brown eyes. I say, clap hands and let's come together in this meeting ground, I say, clap hands and let's deal with each other with love, I say, clap hands and let us get from the low road of indifference, Clap hands, let us come together and reveal our hearts, Let us come together and revise our spirits, Let us come together and cleanse our souls, Clap hands, let's leave the preening stop imposing our own history. Clap hands, call the spirits back from the ledge, Clap hands, let us invite joy into our conversation, Courtesy into our bedrooms, Gentleness into our kitchen, Care into our nursery. The ancestors remind us, despite the history of Paine are a going-on people who will rise again. And still we rise. 
 

 I keep on dying again. Veins collapse, opening like the Small fists of sleepingChildren. Memory of old tombs, Rotting flesh and worms donor convince me against challenge. The Yerevan cold defeat live deep inline along my face. They dull my eyes, yeti keep on dying, Because I love to live. 
 

 Give me your handmade room for met lead and followyoubeyond this rage of poetry. Let others have the privacy of touching word sand love of loss of love. For give me your hand. 
 

 Your skin like dawning like muskie paints the beginning of a certain end. The other, the end of sure beginning. 
 

 When I was young, I used watch behind the curtains As men walked up and down the street. Wino men, old men. Young men sharp as mustard. See them. Men are alwaysGoing somewhere. They knew I was there. FifteenYears old and starving for them. Under my window, they would pause, Their shoulders high like threats of a young girl, Jacket tails slapping overdose behinds, Men. One day they hold you in teams of their hands, gentle, as if cougar the last raw egg in the world. Tenthly tighten up. Just a little. Theorist squeeze is nice. A quick hug. Soft into your defenselessness. A little More. The hurt begins. Wrench out smile that slides around the fear. When their disappears, Your mind pops, exploding fiercely, briefly, Like the head of a kitchen match. Shattered. It is your juiceThat runs down their legs. Staining their shoes. When the earth rights itself again, And taste tries to return to the tongue, Your body has slammed shut. Forever. No keys exist. Then the window draws full eponymous mind. There, just beyond sway of curtains, men walk. Knowing something. Going someplace. But this time, I will simplyStand and watch. Maybe. 
 

 We, unaccustomed to courage exiles from delight live coiled in shells of loneliness until love leaves its high holy temple and comes into our sight to liberate us into life. Love arrive sand in its train come ecstasies old memories of pleasure ancient histories of pain. Yet if we are bold, love strikes away the chains of fear from our souls. We are weaned from our timidity In the flush of love's light we dare be braved suddenly we see that love costs all we Armand will ever be. Yet it is only love which sets us free. 
 

 Lying, thinkingLast nightgown to find my soul a somewhere water is not firsthand bread loaf is not stone came up with one things I don't believe I'm wrought nobody, But nobody Can make it out here alone. Alone, all aloneNobody, but nobody Can make it out here alone. There are some millionairesWith money they can't urethane wives run round like bansheesTheir children sing the bluesy've got expensive doctors cure their hearts of stone. But nobody No, nobody Can make it out here alone. Alone, all aloneNobody, but nobody Can make it out here alone. Now if you listen closely'll tell you what I snowstorm clouds are gathering wind is gonna Blythe race of man is suffering I can hear the moan,'Cause nobody, But nobody Can make it out here alone. Alone, all aloneNobody, but nobody Can make it out here alone. 
 

 You may write me down in historicity your bitter, twisted lies, You may tread me in the very dirtbag still, like dust, I'll rise. Does my nastiness upset you? Why are you beset with gloom? 'Cause I walk like I've got oil wellspring in my living room. Just like moons and like suns, With the certainty of tides, Just like hopes springing high, Still I'll rise. Did you want to see me broken? Bowed head and lowered eyes? Shoulders falling down like teardrops. Weakened by my soulful cries. Does my haughtiness offend you? Don't you take it awful hard'Cause I laugh like I've got gold minesDiggin' in my own backyard. You may shoot me with your words, You may cut me with your eyes, You may kill me with your hatefulness, But still, like air, I'll rise. Does my sexiness upset you? Does it come as a surpriseThat I dance like I've got diamonds At the meeting of my thighs? Out of the huts of history's shame rise from a past that's rooted in pain rise'm a black ocean, leaping and wide, Welling and swelling I bear in the tide. Leaving behind nights of terror and fear rising a daybreak that's wondrously clear restringing the gifts that my ancestors gave, I am the dream and the hope of the slave. I riseI rise. 
 

 Her arms semaphore fat triangles, Pudgy hands bunched on layered hips Where bones idle under years of fatback And Lima beans. Her jowls shiver in accusation Of crimes clichéd by Repetition. Her children, strangers To childhood's toys, play Best the games of darkened doorways, Rooftop tag, and know the slick feel of Other people's property. Too fat to whore, Too mad to work, Searches her dreams for the Lucky sign and walks bare-handed Into a den of bureaucrats for Her portion. 'They don't give me welfare. I take it.' 
 
