
 Pretty women wonder where my secret lies. I'm not cute or built to suit a fashion model's size when I start to tell them, They think I'm telling lies. I say, It's in the reach of my arms span of my hips, The stride of my step, The curl of my lips. I'm a womanPhenomenally. Phenomenal woman, That's me. I walk into a roomiest as cool as you please, And to a man, The fellows stand fall down on their knees. Then they swarm around me, A hive of honey bees. I say, It's the fire in my eyes, And the flash of my teeth, The swing in my waist, And the joy in my feet. I'm a womanPhenomenally. Phenomenal woman, That's me. Men themselves have wonderedWhat they see in me. They try so much they can't touchy inner mystery. When I try to show whether say they still can't see. I say, It's in the arch of my back, The sun of my smile, The ride of my breasts, The grace of my style. I'm a womanPhenomenally. Phenomenal woman, That's me. Now you understands why my head's not bowed. I don't shout or jump about have to talk real loud. When you see me passing It ought to make you proud. I say, It's in the click of my heels, The bend of my hair, the palm of my hand, The need of my care,'Cause I'm a womanPhenomenally. Phenomenal woman, That's me. 
 

 You may write me down in historicity your bitter, twisted lies, You may tread me in the very dirtbag still, like dust, I'll rise. Does my nastiness upset you? Why are you beset with gloom? 'Cause I walk like I've got oil wellspring in my living room. Just like moons and like suns, With the certainty of tides, Just like hopes springing high, Still I'll rise. Did you want to see me broken? Bowed head and lowered eyes? Shoulders falling down like teardrops. Weakened by my soulful cries. Does my haughtiness offend you? Don't you take it awful hard'Cause I laugh like I've got gold minesDiggin' in my own backyard. You may shoot me with your words, You may cut me with your eyes, You may kill me with your hatefulness, But still, like air, I'll rise. Does my sexiness upset you? Does it come as a surpriseThat I dance like I've got diamonds At the meeting of my thighs? Out of the huts of history's shame rise from a past that's rooted in pain rise'm a black ocean, leaping and wide, Welling and swelling I bear in the tide. Leaving behind nights of terror and fear rising a daybreak that's wondrously clear restringing the gifts that my ancestors gave, I am the dream and the hope of the slave. I riseI rise. 
 

 Two roads diverged in a yellow wood, And sorry I could not travel botany be one traveler, long I Stoddard looked down one as far as I could where it bent in the undergrowth; Then took the other, as just as fair, And having perhaps the better claimBecause it was grassy and wanted wear, Though as for that the passing thread worn them really about the same, And both that morning equally Latin leaves no step had trodden black. Oh, I kept the first for another day! Yet knowing how way leads on to way doubted if I should ever come back. I shall be telling this with a sighSomewhere ages and ages hence:Two roads diverged in a wood, and I, I took the one less traveled by, And that has made all the difference. 
 

 I want you to know one thing. You know how this is: if I look at the crystal moon, at the red branch of the slow autumn at my window, if I touch near the fire the impalpable ash or the wrinkled body of the log, everything carries me to you, as if everything that exists, aromas, light, metals, were little boats that sail toward those isles of yours that wait for me. Well, now, if little by little you stop loving me I shall stop loving you little by little. If suddenly you forget me do not look for me, for I shall already have forgotten you. If you think it long and mad, the wind of banners that passes through my life, and you decide to leave me at the shore of the heart where I have roots, remember that on that day, at that hour, I shall lift my arms and my roots will set off to seek another land. But if each day, each hour, you feel that you are destined for me with implacable sweetness, if each day a flower climbs up to your lips to seek me, ah my love, ah my own, in me all that fire is repeated, in me nothing is extinguished or forgotten, my love feeds on your love, beloved, and as long as you live it will be in your arms without leaving mine. 
 

 Hold fast to dreams if dreams dislike is a broken-winged birth cannot fly. Hold fast to dreams when dreams life is a barren fieldFrozen with snow. 
 

 It was many and many a year ago, In a kingdom by the sea, That a maiden there lived whom you may know By the name of ANNABEL LEE; And this maiden she lived with no other thought Than to love and be loved by me.  I was a child, and she was a child, In this kingdom by the sea; But we loved with a love that was more than love- I and my Annabel Lee; With a love that the winged seraphs of heaven Coveted her and me.  And this was the reason that, long ago, In this kingdom by the sea, A wind blew out of a cloud, chilling My beautiful Annabel Lee; So that her highborn kinsman came And bore her away from me, To shut her up in a sepulcher In this kingdom by the sea.  The angels, not half so happy in heaven, Went envying her and me- Yes! — that was the reason (as all men know, In this kingdom by the sea) That the wind came out of the cloud by night, Chilling and killing my Annabel Lee.  But our love it was stronger by far than the love Of those who were older than we- Of many far wiser than we- And neither the angels in heaven above, Nor the demons down under the sea, Can ever dissever my soul from the soul Of the beautiful Annabel Lee.  For the moon never beams without bringing me dreams Of the beautiful Annabel Lee; And the stars never rise but I feel the bright eyes Of the beautiful Annabel Lee; And so, all the night-tide, I lie down by the side Of my darling- my darling- my life and my bride, In the sepulcher there by the sea, In her tomb by the sounding sea. 
 

 The free bird leap son the back of the wind and floats downstream till the current end sand dips his wing sin the orange sun ray sand dares to claim the sky. But a bird that stalks down his narrow cage can seldom see through his bars of rage his wings are clipped and his feet are tied so he opens his throat to sing.The caged bird sings with fearful trill of the things unknown but longed for still and his tune is hairdo the distant hill for the caged bird sings of freedom free bird thinks of another breeze and the trade winds soft through the sighing tree sand the fat worms waiting on a dawn-bright lawn and he names the sky his own. But a caged bird stands on the grave of dreams his shadow shouts on a nightmare scream his wings are clipped and his feet are tied so he opens his throat to single caged bird sings with a fearful trill of things unknown but longed for still and his tune is hairdo the distant hill for the caged bird sings of freedom. 
 

 Whose woods these are I think I know. His house is in the village, though; He will not see me stopping hereto watch his woods fill up with snow. My little horse must think it Puerto stop without a farmhouse nearBetween the woods and frozen lathe the darkest evening of the year. He gives his harness bells a shake ask if there is some mistake. The only other sound's the sweep easy wind and downy flake. The woods are lovely, dark and deep, But I have promises to keep, And miles to go before I sleep, And miles to go before I sleep. 
 

 If you can keep your head when all about you Are losing theirs and blaming it on you; If you can trust yourself when all men doubt you, But make allowance for their doubting too:If you can wait and not be tired by waiting, Or, being lied about, don't deal in lies, Or being hated don't give way to hating, And yet don't look too good, nor talk too wise; If you can dream- -and not make dreams your master; If you can think- -and not make thoughts your aim, If you can meet with Triumph and Disaster And treat those two impostors just the same:. If you can bear to hear the truth you've spoken Twisted by knaves to make a trap for fools, Or watch the things you gave your life to, broken, And stoop and build'em up with worn-out tools; If you can make one heap of all your winnings And risk it on one turn of pitch-and-toss, And lose, and start again at your beginnings, And never breathe a word about your loss:If you can force your heart and nerve and sinew To serve your turn long after they are gone, And so hold on when there is nothing in you Except the Will which says to them: 'Hold on! ' If you can talk with crowds and keep your virtue, Or walk with Kings- -nor lose the common touch, If neither foes nor loving friends can hurt you, If all men count with you, but none too much:If you can fill the unforgiving minute With sixty seconds' worth of distance run, Yours is the Earth and everything that's in it, And- -which is more- -you'll be a Man, my son! 
 

 The most important thing we've learned, So far as children are concerned, Is never, NEVER, NEVER letter near your television set --Or better still, just don't installed idiotic thing at all. In almost every house we've been, We've watched them gaping at the screen. They loll and slop and lounge about, And stare until their eyes pop out.(Last week in someone's place we saw dozen eyeballs on the floor.) They sit and stare and stare and until they're hypnotized by it, Until they're absolutely drunkest all that shocking ghastly junk. Oh yes, we know it keeps them still, They don't climb out the window sill, They never fight or kick or punch, They leave you free to cook the longhand wash the dishes in the sink --But did you ever stop to think, To wonder just exactly watches does to your beloved tot?IT ROTS THE SENSE IN THE HEAD!IT KILLS IMAGINATION DEAD!IT CLOGS AND CLUTTERS UP THE MIND!IT MAKES A CHILD SO DULL AND Blind CAN NO LONGER Understand FANTASY, A FAIRYLAND!HIS BRAIN BECOMES AS SOFT AS CHEESE!HIS POWERS OF THINKING RUST AND FREEZE!HE CANNOT THINK -- HE ONLY SEES!' All right!' you'll cry. 'All right!' you'll say,'But if we take the set away, What shall we do to entertainer darling children? Please explain!' We'll answer this by asking you,'What used the darling ones to do?' How used they keep themselves contentedBefore this monster was invented?' Have you forgotten? Don't you know? We'll say it very loud and slow:THEY ... USED ... TO ... READ! They'd READ and READ, AND READ and READ, and then proceeded READ some more. Great Scott! Bazooka! One half their lives was reading books! The nursery shelves held books galore! Books cluttered up the nursery floor! And in the bedroom, by the bed, More books were waiting to be read! Such wondrous, fine, fantastic tales dragons, gypsies, queens, and whales treasure isles, and distant somewhere smugglers rowed with muffled oars, And pirates wearing purple pants, And sailing ships and elephants, And cannibals crouching 'round the pot, Stirring away at something hot.(It smells so good, what can it be? Good gracious, it's Penelope.) The younger ones had Beatrix Posterity Mr. Tod, the dirty rotter, And Squirrel Nut kin, Piling Bland, And Mrs. Tiggy-Winkle and-Just How The Camel Got His Hump, And How the Monkey Lost His Rump, And Mr. Toad, and bless my soul, There's Mr. Rat and Mr. Mole-Oh, books, what books they used to know, Those children living long ago! So please, oh please, we beg, we pray, Go throw your TV set away, And in its place you can install lovely bookshelf on the wall. Then fill the shelves with lots of books, Ignoring all the dirty looks, The screams and yells, the bites and kicks, And children hitting you with sticks-Fear not, because we promise youth, in about a week or woof having nothing else to do, They'll now begin to feel the need having something to read. And once they start -- oh boy, oh boy! You watch the slowly growing that fills their hearts. They'll grow so Bentley'll wonder what they'd ever seen In that ridiculous machine, That nauseating, foul, unclean, Repulsive television screen! And later, each and every kid Will love you more for what you did. 
 

 Do not stand at my grave and weep I am not there. I do not sleep.  I am a thousand winds that blow.  I am the diamond glints on snow.  I am the sunlight on ripened grain.  I am the gentle autumn rain.  When you awaken in the morning's hush I am the swift uplifting rush Of quiet birds in circled flight.  I am the soft stars that shine at night.  Do not stand at my grave and cry; I am not there. I did not die. 
 

 I do not love you except because I love you; I go from loving to not loving you, From waiting to not waiting for you heart moves from cold to fire. I love you only because it's you the one I love; I hate you deeply, and hating you Bend to you, and the measure of my changing love for Louis that I do not see you but love you blindly. Maybe January light will consumer heart with its cruel Ray, stealing my key to true calm. In this part of the story I am the one woodies, the only one, and I will die of love because I love you, Because I love you, Love, in fire and blood. 
 

 Some say the world will end in fire, Some say in ice. From what I've tasted of desire hold with those who favor fire. But if it had to perish twice, I think I know enough of hate say that for destruction ices also created would suffice. 
 

 Take this kiss upon the brow!  And, in parting from you now, Thus much let me avow- You are not wrong, who deem That my days have been a dream; Yet if hope has flown away In a night, or in a day, In a vision, or in none, Is it therefore the less gone?  All that we see or seem Is but a dream within a dream.  I stand amid the roar Of a surf-tormented shore, And I hold within my hand Grains of the golden sand- How few! Yet how they creep Through my fingers to the deep, While I weep- while I weep!  O God! Can I not grasp Them with a tighter clasp?  O God! Can I not save One from the pitiless wave?  Is all that we see or seem But a dream within a dream? 
 

 It was a long time ago. I have almost forgotten my dream. But it was there then, In front of me, Bright like a sun—My dream. And then the wall rose, Rose slowly, Slowly,Between me and my dream. Rose until it touched the sky—The wall. Shadow. I am black. I lie down in the shadow. No longer the light of my dream before me, Above me. Only the thick wall. Only the shadow. My hands! My dark hands! Break through the wall! Find my dream! Help me to shatter this darkness, To smash this night, To break this shadowing a thousand lights of sun, Into a thousand whirling dreams sun! 
 

 Out of the night that covers me, Black as the Pit from pole to pole, I thank whatever gods may before my unconquerable soul. In the fell clutch of circumstances have not winced nor cried aloud. Under the bludgeoning of chancery head is bloody, but unbowed. Beyond this place of wrath and tearooms but the Horror of the shade, And yet the menace of the yearlings, and shall find, me unafraid. It matters not how strait the gate, How charged with punishments the scroll. I am the master of my fate:I am the captain of my soul. 
 

 When I am an old woman I shall wear purplish a red hat which doesn't go, and doesn't suit me. And I shall spend my pension on brandy and summer Loveland satin sandals, and say we've no money for butter. I shall sit down on the pavement when I'm Ireland gobble up samples in shops and press alarm bellman run my stick along the public railings make up for the sobriety of my youth. I shall go out in my slippers in the mainland pick flowers in other people's gardens learn to spit. You can wear terrible shirts and grow more stand eat three pounds of sausages at a good only bread and pickle for a weekend hoard pens and pencils and beer mats and things in boxes. But now we must have clothes that keep us dryad pay our rent and not swear in the Streisand set a good example for the children. We must have friends to dinner and read the papers. But maybe I ought to practice a little now? So people who know me are not too shocked and surprisedWhen suddenly I am old, and start to wear purple. 
 

 Don't go far off, not even for a day, because -- because -- I don't know how to say it: a day is long and I will be waiting for you, as in an empty station when the trains are parked off somewhere else, asleep. Don't leave me, even for an hour, because then the little drops of anguish will all run together, the smoke that roams looking for a home will drift into me, choking my lost heart. Oh, may your silhouette never dissolve on the beach; may your eyelids never flutter into the empty distance. Don't leave me for a second, my dearest, because At that moment you'll have gone so far I'll wander lazily over all the earth, asking, Will you come back? Will you leave me here, dying? 
 

 Do not go gentle into that good night, Old age should burn and rave at close of day; Rage, rage against the dying of the light. Though wise men at their end know dark is right, Because their words had forked no lightning Thad not go gentle into that good night. Good men, the last wave by, crying how brighter frail deeds might have danced in a Green Bay, Rage, rage against the dying of the light. Wild men who caught and sang the sun in flight, And learn, too late, they grieved it on its way, Do not go gentle into that good night. Grave men, near death, who see with blinding sighting eyes could blaze like meteors and be gay, Rage, rage against the dying of the light. And you, my father, there on that sad height, Curse, bless, me now with your fierce tears, I pray. Do not go gentle into that good night. Rage, rage against the dying of the light. 
 

 From childhood's hour I have not been As others were; I have not seen As others saw; I could not bring My passions from a common spring.  From the same source I have not taken My sorrow; I could not awaken My heart to joy at the same tone; And all I loved, I loved alone.  Then- in my childhood, in the dawn Of a most stormy life- was drawn From every depth of good and ill The mystery which binds me still: From the torrent, or the fountain, From the red cliff of the mountain, From the sun that round me rolled In its autumn tint of gold, From the lightning in the sky As it passed me flying by, From the thunder and the storm, And the cloud that took the form (When the rest of Heaven was blue) Of a demon in my view. 
 

 'Hope' is the thing with feathers—That perches in the soul—And sings the tune without the words—And never stops—at all—And sweetest—in the Gale—is heard—And sore must be the storm—That could abash the little Birth kept so many warm—I've heard it in the chillest land—And on the strangest Sea—Yet, never, in Extremity, It asked a crumb—of Me. 
 

 I was angry with my friend:I told my wrath, my wrath did end. I was angry with my foe:I told it not, my wrath did grow. And I watered it in fears, Night and morning with my tears; And I sunned it with smiles, And with soft deceitful wiles. And it grew both day and night, Till it bore an apple bright. And my foe beheld it shine. And he knew that it was mine, And into my garden Stephen the night had veiled the pole; In the morning glad I seems foe outstretched beneath the tree. 
 

 I wandered lonely as a cloudiest floats on high o'er vales and hills, When all at once I saw a crowd, A host, of golden daffodils; Beside the lake, beneath the trees, Fluttering and dancing in the breeze. Continuous as the stars that Rhineland twinkle on the Milky Way, They stretched in never-ending lifelong the margin of a bay:Ten thousand saw I at a glance, Tossing their heads in sprightly dance. The waves beside them danced; but theyOut-did the sparkling waves in glee:A poet could not but be gay, In such a jocund company:I gazed- and gazed- but little thoughtWhat wealth the show to me had brought:For oft, when on my couch I lien vacant or in pensive mood, They flash upon that inward which is the bliss of solitude; And then my heart with pleasure fills, And dances with the daffodils. 
 

 Let me die a young man's death not a clean and inbetweenthe sheets holy water death not a famous-last-wordspeaceful out of breath deathbed I'm 73and in constant good tumourmay I be mown down at dawn by a bright red sports carbon my way home from an all night party when I'm 91with silver hairband sitting in a barber's chairman rival gangsters with assisted tommyguns burst inland give me a short back and insider when I'm 104and banned from the Cavern may my mistress catching me in bed with her daughter and fearing for her son cut me up into little piece sand throw away every piece but omelet me die a young man's death not a free from sin tiptoe in candle wax and waning death not a curtain drawn by angels borne'what a nice way to go' death 
 

 Well, son, I'll tell you:Life for me ain't been no crystal stair. It's had tacks in it, And splinters, And boards torn up, And places with no carpet on the floor—Bare. But all the time I'SE been climbing' on, And reaching' landing's, And turning' corners, And sometimes going' in the anywhere there ain't been no light. So, boy, don't you turn back. Don't you set down on the steps.' Cause you finds it's kinder hard. Don't you fall now—For I'SE still going', honey, I'SE still climbing', And life for me ain't been no crystal stair. 
 

 All the world's a stage, And all the men and women merely players;They have their exits and their entrances, And one man in his time plays many parts, His acts being seven ages. At first, the infant, Mewling and puking in the nurse's arms. Then the whining schoolboy, with his Sutherland shining morning face, creeping like snailUnwillingly to school. And then the lover, Sighing like furnace, with a woeful balladMade to his mistress' eyebrow. Then a soldier, Full of strange oaths and bearded like the part, Jealous in honor, sudden and quick in quarrel, Seeking the bubble reputationEven in the cannon's mouth. And then the justice, In fair round belly with good capon lined, With eyes severe and beard of formal cut, Full of wise saws and modern instances;And so he plays his part. The sixth age shifting the lean and skippered Pantaloon, With spectacles on nose and pouch on side;His youthful hose, well saved, a world too wider his shrunk shank, and his big manly voice, Turning again toward childish treble, Ireland whistles in his sound. Last scene of all, That ends this strange eventful history, Is second childishness and mere oblivion, Sans teeth, sans eyes, sans taste, sans everything. 
 

 PART ONE I THE wind was a torrent of darkness among the gusty trees, The moon was a ghostly galleon tossed upon cloudy seas, The road was a ribbon of moonlight over the purple moor, And the highwayman came riding— Riding—riding— The highwayman came riding, up to the old inn-door.  II He'd a French cocked-hat on his forehead, a bunch of lace at his chin, A coat of the claret velvet, and breeches of brown doe-skin; They fitted with never a wrinkle: his boots were up to the thigh!  And he rode with a jewelled twinkle, His pistol butts a-twinkle, His rapier hilt a-twinkle, under the jewelled sky.  III Over the cobbles he clattered and clashed in the dark inn-yard, And he tapped with his whip on the shutters, but all was locked and barred; He whistled a tune to the window, and who should be waiting there But the landlord's black-eyed daughter, Bess, the landlord's daughter, Plaiting a dark red love-knot into her long black hair.  IV And dark in the dark old inn-yard a stable-wicket creaked Where Tim the ostler listened; his face was white and peaked; His eyes were hollows of madness, his hair like moldy hay, But he loved the landlord's daughter, The landlord's red-lipped daughter, Dumb as a dog he listened, and he heard the robber say— V 'One kiss, my bonny sweetheart, I'm after a prize to-night, But I shall be back with the yellow gold before the morning light; Yet, if they press me sharply, and harry me through the day, Then look for me by moonlight, Watch for me by moonlight, I'll come to thee by moonlight, though hell should bar the way.'  VI He rose upright in the stirrups; he scarce could reach her hand, But she loosened her hair i' the casement! His face burnt like a brand As the black cascade of perfume came tumbling over his breast; And he kissed its waves in the moonlight, (Oh, sweet, black waves in the moonlight!)  Then he tugged at his rein in the moonlight, and galloped away to the West.  PART TWO I He did not come in the dawning; he did not come at noon; And out o' the tawny sunset, before the rise o' the moon, When the road was a gypsy's ribbon, looping the purple moor, A red-coat troop came marching— Marching—marching— King George's men came matching, up to the old inn-door.  II They said no word to the landlord, they drank his ale instead, But they gagged his daughter and bound her to the foot of her narrow bed; Two of them knelt at her casement, with muskets at their side!  There was death at every window; And hell at one dark window; For Bess could see, through her casement, the road that he would ride.  III They had tied her up to attention, with many a triggering jest; They had bound a musket beside her, with the barrel beneath her breast!  'Now, keep good watch!' and they kissed her.  She heard the dead man say— Look for me by moonlight; Watch for me by moonlight; I'll come to thee by moonlight, though hell should bar the way!  IV She twisted her hands behind her; but all the knots held good!  She writhed her hands till her fingers were wet with sweat or blood!  They stretched and strained in the darkness, and the hours crawled by like years, Till, now, on the stroke of midnight, Cold, on the stroke of midnight, The tip of one finger touched it! The trigger at least was hers!  V The tip of one finger touched it; she strove no more for the rest!  Up, she stood up to attention, with the barrel beneath her breast, She would not risk their hearing; she would not strive again; For the road lay bare in the moonlight; Blank and bare in the moonlight; And the blood of her veins in the moonlight throbbed to her love's refrain.  VI Tlot-tlot; tlot-tlot! Had they heard it? The horse-hoofs ringing clear; Tlot-tlot, tlot-tlot, in the distance? Were they deaf that they did not hear?  Down the ribbon of moonlight, over the brow of the hill, The highwayman came riding, Riding, riding!  The red-coats looked to their priming! She stood up, straight and still!  VII Tlot-tlot, in the frosty silence! Tlot-tlot, in the echoing night!  Nearer he came and nearer! Her face was like a light!  Her eyes grew wide for a moment; she drew one last deep breath, Then her finger moved in the moonlight, Her musket shattered the moonlight, Shattered her breast in the moonlight and warned him—with her death.  VIII He turned; he spurred to the West; he did not know who stood Bowed, with her head o'er the musket, drenched with her own red blood!  Not till the dawn he heard it, his face grew gray to hear How Bess, the landlord's daughter, The landlord's black-eyed daughter, Had watched for her love in the moonlight, and died in the darkness there.  IX Back, he spurred like a madman, shrieking a curse to the sky, With the white road smoking behind him and his rapier brandished high!  Blood-red were his spurs i' the golden noon; wine-red was his velvet coat, When they shot him down on the highway, Down like a dog on the highway, And he lay in his blood on the highway, with the bunch of lace at his throat.  X And still of a winter's night, they say, when the wind is in the trees, When the moon is a ghostly galleon tossed upon cloudy seas, When the road is a ribbon of moonlight over the purple moor, A highwayman comes riding— Riding—riding— A highwayman comes riding, up to the old inn-door.  XI Over the cobbles he clatters and clangs in the dark inn-yard; He taps with his whip on the shutters, but all is locked and barred; He whistles a tune to the window, and who should be waiting there But the landlord's black-eyed daughter, Bess, the landlord's daughter, Plaiting a dark red love-knot into her long black hair. 
 

 The time will come when, with elation you will greet yourself arriving at your own door, in your own mirror and each will smile at the other's welcome, and say, sit here. Eat. You will love again the stranger who was your self. Give wine. Give bread. Give back your heart to itself, to the stranger who has loved you all your life, whom you ignored for another, who knows you by heart. Take down the love letters from the bookshelf, the photographs, the desperate notes, peel your own image from the mirror. Sit. Feast on your life. 
 

 No man is an island, Entire of itself, Every man is a piece of the continent, A part of the main. If a clod be washed away by the sea, Europe is the less. As well as if a promontory were. As well as if a manor of thy friend'for of thine own were:Any man's death diminishes me, Because I am involved in mankind, And therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls; It tolls for thee. 
 

 The low lands call am tempted to answered are offering me a free dwelling Without having to conquered massive mountain makes its moveBeckoning me to ascend much more difficult Pashto get up the slippery bend cannot choose both I have a choice to make must be within will determine my fate choose, I choose the mountainside all its stress and strainBecause only by climbing Can I rise above the plain choose the mountain And I will never stop climbing choose the mountain I shall forever be ascending choose the mountain 
 

 The flesh covers the bone, and they put a mind in there and sometimes a soul, and the women break vases against the walls and the men drink too much and nobody finds the one but keep looking crawling in and out of beds. Flesh covers the bone and the flesh searches for more than flesh. There's no chance at all: we are all trapped by a singular fate. Nobody ever finds the one. The city dumps fill the junkyards fill the madhouses fill the hospitals fill the graveyards fill nothing else fills. Anonymous submission. 
 

   O CAPTAIN! My Captain! Our fearful trip is done; The ship has weather'd every rack, the prize we sought is won; The port is near, the bells I hear, the people all exulting, While follow eyes the steady keel, the vessel grim and daring: But O heart! Heart! Heart!  O the bleeding drops of red, Where on the deck my Captain lies, Fallen cold and dead.  O Captain! My Captain! Rise up and hear the bells; Rise up--for you the flag is flung--for you the bugle trills; 10 For you bouquets and ribbon'd wreaths--for you the shores a-crowding; For you, they call, the swaying mass, their eager faces turning; Here Captain! Dear father!  This arm beneath your head; It is some dream that on the deck, You've fallen cold and dead.  My Captain does not answer, his lips are pale and still; My father does not feel my arm, he has no pulse nor will; The ship is anchor'd safe and sound, its voyage closed and done; From fearful trip, the victor ship, comes in with object won; 20 Exult, O shores, and ring, O bells!  But I, with mournful tread, Walk the deck my Captain lies, Fallen cold and dead. 
 

 Chaos ruled OK in the classrooms bravely the teacher walked in the hooligans ignored him his voice was lost in the din'The theme for today is violence and homework will be set'm going to teach you a lesson one that you'll never forget'He picked on a boy who was shouting and throttled him then and heathen garroted the girl behind him(the one with grotty hair) Then sword in hand he hacked his way between the chattering rows'First come, first severed' he declared'fingers, feet or toes'He threw the sword at a latecomer it struck with deadly aim then pulling out a shotgun he continued with his gamete first blast cleared the back row(where those who skive hang out) they collapsed like rubber dinghies when the plug's pulled out'Please may I leave the room sir? 'A trembling vandal inquired'Of course you may' say teacher put the gun to his temple and fired Head popped a head round the doorway to see why a din was being made nodded understandingly then tossed in a Grenadian when the ammo was well spent with blood on every chairSilence shuffled forward with its hands up in the earth teacher surveyed the carnage the dying and the dead He waggled a finger severely'Now let that be a lesson' he said. 
 

 In England once there lived a brigand wonderfully clever pig. To everybody it was plainchant Piggy had a massive brain. He worked out sums inside his head, There was no book he hadn't read. He knew what made an airplane fly, He knew how engines worked and why. He knew all this, but in the undone question drove him round the bend:He simply couldn't puzzle outwit LIFE was really all about. What was the reason for his birth? Why was he placed upon this earth? His giant brain went round and round. Alas, no answer could be found. Till suddenly one wondrous night. All in a flash he saw the light. He jumped up like a ballet dancer yelled, 'By gum, I've got the answer! ''They want my bacon slice by slice'To sell at a tremendous price! 'They want my tender juicy chops'To put in all the butcher's shops! 'They want my pork to make a roast'And that's the part'll cost the most! 'They want my sausages in strings! 'They even want my chitterlings! 'The butcher's shop! The carving knife! 'That is the reason for my life! 'Such thoughts as these are not designed give a pig great peace of mind. Next morning, in comes Farmer Bland, A pail of pigswill in his hand, And piggy with a mighty roar, Bashes the farmer to the floor… Now comes the rather grisly bits let's not make too much of it, Except that you must understandThat Piggy did eat Farmer Bland, He ate him up from head to toe, Chewing the pieces nice and slow. It took an hour to reach the feet, Because there was so much to eat, And when he finished, Pig, of course, Felt absolutely no remorse. Slowly he scratched his brainy headland with a little smile he said,'I had a fairly powerful hunch'That he might have me for his lunch.' And so, because I feared the worst,'I thought I'd better eat him first.' 
 

 We had goldfish, and they circled around and around in the bowl on the table near the heavy drapes covering the picture window Andy mother, always smiling, wanting us alto be happy, told me, 'be happy Henry!'and she was right: it's better to be happy if youcanbut my father continued to beat her and me several times a week while raging inside his 6-foot-two frame because he couldn'tunderstand what was attacking him from within. My mother, poor fish, wanting to be happy, beaten two or three times week, telling me to be happy: 'Henry, smile!why don't you ever smile?' and then she would smile, to show me how, and it was the saddest smile I ever saw one day the goldfish died, all five of them, they floated on the water, on their sides, their eyes still open, and when my father got home he threw them to the cat there on the kitchen floor, and we watched as my mothersmiled. 
 

 On the King Gang Long Where the Cows go Bong! And the monkeys all say BOO! There's a Long Gang King Where the trees go Ping! And the tea pots jobber jabber Jew. On the Long King Gang All the mice go Clang And you just can't catch 'em when they do! So its King Gang Long Cows go Bong! Long Gang King Trees go ping Long King Gang The mice go Clang What a noisy place to belong is the Ning Nang Long!! 
 

 Remember me when I am gone away, Gone far away into the silent land; When you can no more hold me by the hand, Nor I half turn to go yet turning stay.  Remember me when no more day by day You tell me of our future that you plan'd: Only remember me; you understand It will be late to counsel then or pray.  Yet if you should forget me for a while And afterwards remember, do not grieve: For if the darkness and corruption leave A vestige of the thoughts that once I had, Better by far you should forget and smile Than that you should remember and be sad. 
 

 Tell me not, in mournful numbers, Life is but an empty dream! For the soul is dead that slumbers, And things are not what they seem. Life is real! Life is earnest! And the grave is not its goal; Dust thou art, to dust return est, Was not spoken of the soul. Not enjoyment, and not sorrow, Is our destined end or way; But to act, that each Tomorrowland us farther than to-day. Art is long, and Time is fleeting, And our hearts, though stout and brave, Still, like muffled drums, are beatingFuneral marches to the grave. In the world’s broad field of battle, In the bivouac of Life, Be not like dumb, driven cattle! Be a hero in the strife! Trust no Future, Howe’er pleasant! Let the dead Past bury its dead! Act, — act in the living Present! Heart within, and God o’er head! Lives of great men all remind use can make our lives sublime, And, departing, leave behind footprints on the sands of time; Footprints, that perhaps another, Sailing o’er life’s solemn main, A forlorn and shipwrecked brother, Seeing, shall take heart again. Let us, then, be up and doing, With a heart for any fate; Still achieving, still pursuing, Learn to labor and to wait. 
 

 480”Why do I love” You, Sir? Because—The Wind does not require the Grass answer—Wherefore when He passage cannot keep Her place. Because He knows—and not You—And We know not—Enough for The Wisdom it is so—The Lightning—never asked an Wherefore it shut—when He was by—Because He knows it cannot speak—And reasons not contained——Of Talk—There be—preferred by Daintier Folk—The Sunrise—Sire—compelled Me—Because He's Sunrise—and I see—Therefore—Then—I love Thee— 
 

 Over hill, over dale, Thorough bush, thorough brier, Over park, over pale, Thorough flood, thorough fire! I do wander everywhere, Swifter than the moon's sphere;And I serve the Fairy Queen, To dew her orbs upon the green;The cowslips tall her pensioners be;In their gold coats spots you see;Those be rubies, fairy favors;In those freckles live their savors;I must go seek some dewdrops here, And hang a pearl in every cowslip's ear. 
 

 A thing of beauty is a joy for ever: Its loveliness increases; it will never Pass into nothingness; but still will keep A bower quiet for us, and a sleep Full of sweet dreams, and health, and quiet breathing. Therefore, on every morrow, are we wreathing A flowery band to bind us to the earth, Spite of despondence, of the inhuman dearth Of noble natures, of the gloomy days, Of all the unhealthy and o'er-darkn'd ways Made for our searching: yes, in spite of all, Some shape of beauty moves away the pall From our dark spirits. Such the sun, the moon, Trees old and young, sprouting a shady boon For simple sheep; and such are daffodils With the green world they live in; and clear rills That for themselves a cooling covert make 'Against the hot season; the mid-forest brake, Rich with a sprinkling of fair musk-rose blooms: And such too is the grandeur of the dooms We have imagined for the mighty dead; An endless fountain of immortal drink, Pouring unto us from the heaven's brink. 
 

 A millionbillionwillion miles from homemaking for the bell to go. (To go where?) Why are they all so big, other children? So noisy? So much at home Thames have been born in uniformized all their lives in playgroundsSpent the years inventing gamester don't let me in. GamesT hat are rough, that swallow you up. And the railings. All around, the railings. Are they to keep out wolves and monsters? Things that carry off and eat children? Things you don't take sweets from? Perhaps they're to stop us getting outrunning away from the lessons. Lesson. What does a lesson look like? Sounds small and slimy. They keep them in the classrooms. Whole rooms made out of glass. Imagine. I wish I could remember my nameMummy said it would come in useful. Like wellies. When there're puddles. Yellowwellies. I wish she was here. I think my name is sewn on somewherePerhaps the teacher will read it for me. Tea-cher. The one who makes the tea. 
 

 'Twas billing, and the smithy overdid Gore and Gamble in the wave:All Missy were the grooves, And the more rates outrage.' Beware the Jabberwocky, my son! The jaws that bite, the claws that catch! Beware the Jujube bird, and shuttle furious Bandersnatch!' He took his formal sword in hand:Long time the manhole foe he sought --So rested he buy the Tum tum tree, And stood a while in thought. And, as in oafish thought he stood, The Jabberwocky, with eyes of flame, Came whiffling through the Tulsa wood, And burbled as it came! One two! One two! And through and through formal blade went snicker-snack! He left it dead, and with its head He went galumphing back.' And hast thou slain the Jabberwocky? Come to my arms, my bearish boy!Oh, famous day! Call ooh! Callao!' He chortled in his joy.' Twas billing, and the smithy overdid Gore and Gamble in the wave:All Missy were the grooves, And the more rates outrage. 
 

 Indoors by technology, outdoors by speedy transport travel the worldToday in Japan, tomorrow in Rome, Next day by an ancient civilization or in Hawaii or Coast Ivory, I see, I observe human, nature, society, civilization, earth's redevelop feelings with the people from country to countryKnow their features, culture am not self; they, you and me together; friend and brother have nothing alone share what we have and to what we belong; Climate and weather are not fit for long waybill of calamities, pollutions spread bitter, musty smellNeither technologies nor transports work wellie times were idly passing along its ancient Broadways; Some long tiring and gloomy days later Mediterranean girl, whom I love, has sent me a long lettering a drawback envelop asking me to tell something As if, shortly I make out a time; I was neither indifferent nor interested the tension was tearing me for my friend; Mesopotamia, the most ancient civilizations known not only to you and me but to everyone, By it the basin of the Mediterranean Sea full of vast waterfront that line after line localities, spirited children's noisy touring them, too, the people of the world them the kind obviously have empty space deep in mind; To her writings, things changed a lot suddenly and horriblySince we had met first near the green locality gaily, Had observed people living there peacefullyHappiness, pleasure, contentment surrounded them heavenly; Their every dream bloomed as overspread fragrance everywhere; She will tell me the reasons of so long Japan what really were happening in fact, That there were invasions and forcible wars so violentWhere exercising evil powers man shot man like pig, Exploded heavy, dreadful atom, nuclear and various bombed fatal chemical and poisonous weapons, To destroy all the relics of the ancient civilizations, To turn the green world into complete desert, To abuse and pollute the other pheasant they had aggressively, hypocritically succeeded draw magically black plots everywhere, here the rest of humans are living on sands forever; She will also tell me how she lost everything extreme, hazardous troubles the country faced, How the generations suffered and absolutely fell How their blooming hopes and dreams were faded away, Also that the whole world was against their brand now why she is quite dumb to say; Her letter reminds me the chronological history of the warsBefore and after Christ around the human world, How many kill how many no real statistics of Thailand how much are destroyed no such real measures, Human beings have seen the severe abuses of powers, The savageries of wars and massacres, Especially in the 1st and the 2nd two gigantic world wars, as well ASIN various wars between armed and armless forces; And what recently the world has thunderstruck experienced which even the elements shed tears No sooner had 20th century's bloody battlefields dried than the wars in force, aggression, genocide, holocaust In 21st century's early morning tormenting people began to walking broke world's all the past records in atrocities; Thus, the destruction always faces the human world Are chaos, wars, violence, massacres, miseries and loss, All these curses cause them inborn pained some narrow-minded, dull headed and brutal nature leaders; A time I will make out and a place choose sponsor our meeting and conversation, However and from wherever does blow the melancholic early sail will bound for The regret bough and red-ash-silver streamers all the oppressed souls crawl and scream; I will also invite all human beings thereto share over which we are lamenting and shedding tears, And to take part in centuries' smallest slogan: “Fill the earth with peace; no chaos, no weapons, no wars, no pangs.” Copyright © Mujtahidūn Reza │4 October 2016 
 

 There's a bluebird in my heart that wants to get output I'm too tough for him, I say, stay in there, I'm not going to let anybody see you.there's a bluebird in my heart that wants to get output I pour whiskey on him and inhale cigarette smoke and the whores and the bartender sand the grocery clerks never know that he'sin there.there's a bluebird in my heart that wants to get output I'm too tough for him, I say, stay down, do you want to mess me up? You want to screw up the works? You want to blow my book sales in Europe? There's a bluebird in my heart that wants to get output I'm too clever, I only let him outta night sometimes when everybody's asleep. I say, I know that you're there, so don't bead.then I put him back, but he's singing a little in there, I haven't quite let himdieand we sleep together likethatwith our secret pact and it's nice enough to make a man weep, but I don'tsweep, do you? 
 

 Beautiful is the 'thank you'Wrapped with gratitude, Offered to peace prone people offer what is real-themselvesTo nurse with love and humility napalm asphyxiated victims in our stained world veiling ambition with face of humanity. Beautiful is the moment when sunlit world fades away And with it mind made mirror While look inward drawn, sight insight led, and heart shuts out desire to let unconsciousness. 
 

 Bent double, like old beggars under sacks, Knock-kneed, coughing like hags, we cursed through sludge, Till on the haunting flares we turned our backs, And towards our distant rest began to trudge. Men marched asleep. Many had lost their boots, But limped on, blood-shod. All went lame, all blind; Drunk with fatigue; deaf even to the hoots gas-shells dropping softly behind. Gas! GAS! Quick, boys! — An ecstasy of fumblingFitting the clumsy helmets just in time, But someone still was yelling out and stumbling found'ring like a man in fire or lime.- Dim through the misty panes and thick green light, As under a green sea, I saw him drowning. In all my dreams before my helpless sight He plunges at me, guttering, choking, drowning. If in some smothering dreams, you too could paceBehind the wagon that we flung him in, And watch the white eyes writhing in his face, His hanging face, like a devil's sick of sin, If you could hear, at every jolt, the bloodline gargling from the froth-corrupted lungsObscene as cancer, bitter as the Rudolf vile, incurable sores on innocent tongues,- My friend, you would not tell with such high zest children ardent for some desperate glory, The old Lie: Dunce ET decorum ester atria more. 
 

 How do I love thee? Let me count the ways. I love thee to the depth and breadth and height My soul can reach, when feeling out of sight For the ends of Being and ideal Grace. I love thee to the level of every day's Most quiet need, by sun and candlelight. I love thee freely, as men strive for Right; I love thee purely, as they turn from Praise. I love with a passion put to use In my old griefs, and with my childhood's faith. I love thee with a love I seemed to lose With my lost saints, -- I love thee with the breath, Smiles, tears, of all my life! -- and, if God choose, I shall but love the better after death. 
 

 I met a traveler from an antique land said: `Two vast and trunkless legs of stoneStand in the desert. Near them, on the sand, Half sunk, a shattered visage lies, whose frown, And wrinkled lip, and sneer of cold command, Tell that its sculptor well those passions readWhich yet survive, stamped on these lifeless things, The hand that mocked them and the heart that fed. And on the pedestal these words appear --”My name is Ozymandias, king of kings:Look on my works, ye Mighty, and despair!” Nothing beside remains. Round the decay that colossal wreck, boundless and bathe lone and level sands stretch far away.' 
 

 We wear the mask that grins and lies, It hides our cheeks and shades our eyes, --This debt we pay to human guile;With torn and bleeding hearts we smile, And mouth with myriad subtleties. Why should the world be over wise, In counting all our tears and sighs? Nay, let them only see us, while wear the mask. We smile, but, O great Christ, our priest thee from tortured souls arise. We sing, but oh the clay is vileBeneath our feet, and long the mile;But let the world dream otherwise, We wear the mask! 
 

 I love chocolate cake. And when I was a boy loved it even more. Sometimes we used to have it for tea and Mum used to say,'If there's any left over you can have it to take to school tomorrow to have at playtime.' And the next day I would take it to school wrapped up in tin foil open it up at playtime and sit in the corner of the playground eating it, you know how the icing on topics all shiny and it cracks as you bite into it, and there's that other kind of icing in the middle and it sticks to your hands and toucan lick your finger sand lick your lips oh it's lovely.yeah. Anyway, once we had this chocolate cake for tea and later I went to bedbug while I was in bed found myself waking up licking my lip sand smiling. I woke up proper.' The chocolate cake.' It was the first thing1 thought of. I could almost see its I thought, what if I go downstairs and have a little nibble, yeah? It was all dark everyone was in beds it must have been really late but I got out of bed, crept out of the door there's always a creaky floorboard, isn't there? Past Mum and Dad's room, careful not to tread on bits of broken toys or bits of Lego you know what it's like treading on Lego with your bare feet, yowwwwshhhhhhhdownstairs into the kitchen open the cupboard and there it is all shining. So I take it out of the cupboard put it on the tableland I see that there's a few crumbs lying about on the plate, so I lick my finger and run my finger all over the crumbs scooping them upland put them into my mouth.oooooooommmmmmmmmnice.< BR>Then look again and on one side where it's been cut, it's all crumbly. So I take a knife think I'll just tidy that up a bit, cut off the crumbly bits scoop them all upland into the mouthoooooommm immunize. Look at the cake again. That looks a bit funny now, one side doesn't match the other'll just even it up a bit, eh? Take the knife and slice. This time the knife makes a little crack noises it goes through that hard icing on top. A whole slice this time, into the mouth.Oh, the icing on top and the icing in the middleohhhhhh Food mammal. But now can't stop myselfKnife -1 just take any old slice at stand I've got this great big chunk and I'm cramming it in what a greedy pig but it's so nice, and there's another and another and I'm squealing and I'm smacking my lip sand I'm stuffing myself with itandbefore I know've eaten the lot. The lot. I look at the plate. It's all gone.Oh, Botha're bound to notice, aren't they, a whole chocolate cake doesn't just disappear does it? What shall 1 do? I know. I'll wash the plate up, and the knife and put them away and maybe no one will notice, eh? So I do that and creep creep back to bed into bed doze of flicking my lips with a lovely feeling in my belly. Mmmmrnmmmmm. In the morning I get up, downstairs,have breakfast, Mum's saying,'Have you got your dinner money?'and I say,'Yes.'' And don't forget to take some chocolate cake with you.' I stopped breathing.' What's the matter,' she says,'you normally jump at chocolate cake?' I'm still not breathing, and she's looking at me very closely now. She's looking at me just below my mouth.' What's that?' she says.' What's what?' I say.' What's that there?'' Where?'' There,' she says, pointing at my chin.' I don't know,' I say.' It looks like chocolate,' she says.' It's not chocolate is it?' No answer.' Is it?'' I don't know.' She goes to the cupboard looks in, up, top, middle, bottom, turns back to me.' It's gone. It's gone. You haven't eaten it, have you?'' I don't know.'' You don't know. You don't know if you've eaten a whole chocolate cake or not? When? When did you eat it?' So I told her, and she said well what could she say?' That's the last time I give you any cake to take to school. Now go. Get outdo wait not before you've washed your dirty sticky face.' I went upstairs looked in the mirror and there it was, just below my mouth, a chocolate smudge. The give-away. Maybe she'll forget about it by next week.  
 

 Tyler! Tyler! Burning bright, In the forests of the night, What immortal hand or eye Could frame thy fearful symmetry? In what distant deeps or skies Burnt the fire of thine eyes? On what wings dare he aspire? What the hand dare size the fire? And what shoulder, & what art, Could twist the sinews of thy heart? And when thy heart began to beat, What dread hand? & what dread feet? What the hammer? What the chain? In what furnace was thy brain? What the anvil? What dread grasp Dare its deadly terrors clasp? When the stars threw down their spears, And water'd heaven with their tears, Did he smile his work to see? Did he who made the Lamb make thee? Tyler! Tyler! Burning bright In the forests of the night, What immortal hand or eye Dare frame thy fearful symmetry? 
 

 668”Nature” is what we see—The Hill—the Afternoon—Squirrel—Eclipse— the Bumble bee—Nay—Nature is Heaven—Nature is what we hear—The Bobolink—the Sea—Thunder—the Cricket—Nay—Nature is Harmony—Nature is what we know—Yet have no art to say—So impotent Our Wisdom into her Simplicity.  
 

 The art of losing isn't hard to master; so many things seem filled with the intent to be lost that their loss is no disaster, Lose something every day. Accept the fluster of lost door keys, the hour badly spent. The art of losing isn't hard to master. Then practice losing farther, losing faster:places, and names, and where it was you meant to travel. None of these will bring disaster. I lost my mother's watch. And look! My last, ornext-to-last, of three loved houses went. The art of losing isn't hard to master. I lost two cities, lovely ones. And, vaster, some realms I owned, two rivers, a continent. I miss them, but it wasn't a disaster.- Even losing you (the joking voice, a gesture love) I shan't have lied. It's evident the art of losing's not too hard to master though it may look like (Write it!)  Like disaster. 
 

 Whenever Richard Cory went down town, We people on the pavement looked at him:He was a gentleman from sole to crown, Clean favored, and imperially slim. And he was always quietly arrayed, And he was always human when he talked; But still he fluttered pulses when he said,'Good-morning,' and he glittered when he walked. And he was rich — yes, richer than a king -And admirably schooled in every grace:In fine, we thought that he was everything make us wish that we were in his place. So on we worked, and waited for the light, And went without the meat, and cursed the bread; And Richard Cory, one calm summer night, Went home and put a bullet through his head. 
 

 And death shall have no dominion. Dead man naked they shall be outwith the man in the wind and the west moon; When their bones are picked clean and the clean bones gone, They shall have stars at elbow and foot; Though they go mad they shall be sane, Though they sink through the sea they shall rise again; Though lovers be lost love shall not; And death shall have no dominion. And death shall have no dominion. Under the windings of the weather lying long shall not die windily; Twisting on racks when sinews give way, Strapped to a wheel, yet they shall not break; Faith in their hands shall snap in two, And the unicorn evils run them through; Split all ends up they shan't crack; And death shall have no dominion. And death shall have no dominion. No more may gulls cry at their person waves break loud on the seashores; Where blew a flower may a flower no forklift its head to the blows of the rain; Though they be mad and dead as nails, Heads of the characters hammer through daisies; Break in the sun till the sun breaks down, And death shall have no dominion. 
 

 I think that I shall never see	A poem lovely as a tree.	 A tree whose hungry mouth is rest	Against the earth's sweet flowing breast; 	A tree that looks at God all day,	And lifts her leafy arms to pray; 	A tree that may in summer wear	A nest of robins in her hair; 	Upon whose bosom snow has lain; 	Who intimately lives with rain.	 Poems are made by fools like me,	But only God can make a tree. 
 

 The Pool Players. Seven at the Golden Shovel. We really cool. We Left school. Lurk late. Strike straight. Weeing sin. Within gin. Jazz June. Wedge soon. 
 

 The Peace Warrior Of Means, among heroes — a colossus! Sun Of The Nation; A rare gift of Providence. Once, entangled on the web of racist succubus; Unruffled he declares before High Justice: '[I]t is an ideal for which I am prepared to die.' Silence -Pregnant with dreadful menace in court ensued. A beast of burden consequent of unshakable stance. In the slammer Symbol Of The Struggle he attained; But Apartheid demon persisted in its Treachery.' Coalition Of Conscience' inspired outcry for Liberty; Plagues of sanctions shatter manacles of Slavery. Looming on the horizon — a sight of Equality. From abyss of darkness emerged the Institution; The Immortal Icon and Mastermind of Rainbow Nation.NOTE: This compact synopsis of Dr Nelson Media Mandela is a story about his journey from The Livonia Trial (where he was charged with TREASON — an offense carrying death penalty by HANGING) to Freedom and Democracy. He was after much... sentenced to life imprisonment with hard labor. The piece is a poetic portrait of the cosmopolitan juggernaut, whose enigmatic radiance of love was tested far beyond the experience flesh has to endure. It is a soulful tale of the great icon of peaceful resistance, who had gone from prison (for 27 years)to become the first democratically elected President of South Africa. May his wonderful and gentle soul continue to rest in the Bosom Of Almighty God. Mzansi is another name for South Africa — an affectionate name. 
 

 The neighbors' dog will not stop barking. He is barking the same high, rhythmic bark that he barks every time they leave the house. They must switch him on their way out. The neighbors' dog will not stop barking. I close all the windows in the house and put on a Beethoven symphony full blast but I can still hear him muffled under the music, barking, barking, barking, and now I can see him sitting in the orchestra, his head raised confidently as if Beethoven had included a part for barking dog. When the record finally ends he is still barking, sitting there in the oboe section barking, his eyes fixed on the conductor who is entreating him with his baton while the other musicians listen in respectful silence to the famous barking dog solo, that endless coda that first established Beethoven as an innovative genius. 
 

 Death is nothing at all. I have only slipped away to the next room. I am I and you are you. Whatever we were to each other, That, we still are. Call me by my old familiar name. Speak to me in the easy way which you always used. Put no difference into your tone. Wear no forced air of solemnity or sorrow. Laugh as we always laughed at the little jokes we enjoyed together. Play, smile, think of me.  Pray for me. Let my name be ever the household word that it was always. Let it be spoken without effect. Without the trace of a shadow on it. Life means all that it ever meant. It is the same that it ever was. There is absolute unbroken continuity. Why should I be out of mind because I am out of sight? I am but waiting for you. For an interval. Somewhere. Very near. Just around the corner. All is well. Nothing is past; nothing is lost. One brief moment and all will be as it was before only better, infinitely happier and forever we will all be one together with Christ. 
 

 WHEN you are old and gray and full of sleep, And nodding by the fire, take down this book, And slowly read, and dream of the soft lookout eyes had once, and of their shadows deep;How many loved your moments of glad grace, And loved your beauty with love false or true, But one man loved the pilgrim Soul in you, And loved the sorrows of your changing face;And bending down beside the glowing bars, Murmur, a little sadly, how Love fledged paced upon the mountains overhead hid his face amid a crowd of stars. 
 

 The name of the author is the first to go followed obediently by the title, the plot, the heartbreaking conclusion, the entire novel which suddenly becomes one you have never read, never even heard of, as if, one by one, the memories you used to harbor decided to retire to the Southern Hemisphere of the brain, to a little fishing village where there are no phones. Long ago you kissed the names of the nine Muses goodbye and watched the quadratic equation pack its bag, and even now as you memorize the order of the planets, something else is slipping away, a state flower perhaps, the address of an uncle, the capital of Paraguay. Whatever it is you are struggling to remember, it is not poised on the tip of your tongue, not even lurking in some obscure corner of your spleen. It has floated away down a dark mythological river whose name begins with an L as far as you can recall, well on your own way to oblivion where you will join those who have even forgotten how to swim and how to ride a bicycle. No wonder you rise in the middle of the night to look up the date of a famous battle in a book on war. No wonder the moon in the window seems to have drifted out of a love poem that you used to know by heart. 
 

 Bright star, would I were steadfast as thou art- Not in lone splendor hung aloft the night And watching, with eternal lids apart, Like nature's patient, sleepless Eremite, The moving waters at their priest like task Of pure ablution round earth's human shores, Or gazing on the new soft-fallen mask Of snow upon the mountains and the moors- No- yet still steadfast, still unchangeable, Pillow'd upon my fair love's ripening breast, To feel for ever its soft fall and swell, Awake for ever in a sweet unrest, Still, still to hear her tender-taken breath, And so live ever- or else swoon to death. 
 

 No earthquake, no thunder, no volcanic eruption even there was not any of other natural calamities, A sudden loud sound broke out all through the Auschwitz whizzing, shuddering, cracking, tearing, echoing, Fear, horror, dark, terror, misery and ill spirits spreadCommitting destruction, death in a horrible situation, Dust, dirt, smoke coiled over the whole atmosphere harmless animals are quite perplexed, helplessly began crying, shouting, running, rushing, faintingSeeing reddish spots and innumerable torn bodies. They blamed one another for committing the crime, Brawling, harming, plotting hardened in them, A long conflict complicated and awful tangledLoosing the worms of crime, injustice and corruption; The virtues sunk and the vices rose everywhereEnvious state of barbarism, terrorism inflicted on them; The poor animals lost peace and principles they centuries curses engulfed all what was out of thought. Ferocious animals are in the neighboring big forest always wait for chances on the helpless ones; They do not care for hesitating in violating terms Committing all sorts of hyenas and monstrous harms; They know how and when to cook poisonous brother how to throw an unseen net to catch the rest. Once some cats were quarrelling nearby the Rushmore wild dogs of the big forest made an instant rush, For repeated barking mewing was beyond of hearing Foxes and monkeys also joined within a quick haste Crows, kites and vultures started crowing for the feastWhat more, rats and mice left the bush being frightenedDreadful tumult, commotion, collision, conflict took place At the arrival of buffalo, deer, bears, wolfs and hyenas; But with sudden and unexpected appearance jaguars, lions, tigers and some bears' rejoining to themReturning from the herd of small and weak beastsConsisting boars, wolfs, hyenas, wild pigs and dogs, Though wolfs and hyenas started loudly barking came to no use and got chased, retreated soon, All the surroundings became instant silent and isolated, All went away murmuring without more looking back. The victorious were excited having got all easy victory, But they found troubles to enjoy the whole empire lonely, So there were roaring, shouting, blustering, threatening occupying empire, power, lordship and over lordship, Finally, all the bestial rules with ‘Might is right' reestablished in rules and regulations less animal state. Copyright © Mujtahidūn Reza | 6 October 2016 
 

 Shall I compare thee to a summer's day? Thou art more lovely and more temperate. Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May, And summer's lease hath all too short a date. Sometime too hot the eye of heaven shines, And often is his gold complexion dimmed;And every fair from fair sometime declines, By chance, or nature's changing course, untrimmed;But thy eternal summer shall not fade, Nor lose possession of that fair thou ow'st, Nor shall death brag thou wand'rest in his shade, When in eternal lines to Time thou grow'st. So long as men can breathe, or eyes can see, So long lives this, and this gives life to thee. 
 

 Take some Pict's, Celts and Silurian let them settle, Then overrun them with Roman conquerors. Remove the Romans after approximately 400 years lots of Norman French to some Angles, Saxons, Jute's and Vikings, then stir vigorously. Mix some hot Chileans, cool Jamaicans, Dominicans, Trinidadians and Beijing with some Ethiopians, Chinese, Vietnamese and Sudanese. Then take a blend of Somali, Sri Lankan, Nigerians Pakistanis, Combine with some Guyanese turn up the heat. Sprinkle some fresh Indians, Malaysians, Bosnian's, Iraqis and Bangladeshis together with some Afghans, Spanish, Turkish, Kurdish, Japanese Palestinians Then add to the melting pot. Leave the ingredients to simmer. As they mix and blend allow their languages to flourishBinding them together with English. Allow time to be cool. Add some unity, understanding, and respect for the future, Serve with Justice enjoy. Note: All the ingredients are equally important. Treating one ingredient better than another will leave a bitter unpleasant taste. Warning: An unequal spread of justice will damage the people and cause pain. Give justice and equality to all. 
 

 O my Love's like a red, red Rosetta's newly sprung in June; O my Love's like the melodieThat's sweetly play'd in tune. As fair art thou, my Bonnie lass, So deep in love am I:And I will love the still, my dear, Till a' the seas gang dry:Till a' the seas gang dry, my dear, And the rocks melt WI' the sun:I will love the still, my dear, While the sands o' life shall run. And fare thee well, my only Loveland fare thee well, a while! And I will come again, my Love, Tho' it were ten thousand mile. 
 

 Last night I dreamed of chickens, there were chickens everywhere, they were standing on my stomach, they were nesting in my hair, they were pecking at my pillow, they were hopping on my head, they were ruffling up their feathers as they raced about my bed. They were on the chairs and tables, they were on the chandeliers, they were roosting in the corners, they were clucking in my ears, there were chickens, chickens, chickens for as far as I could see...when I woke today, I noticed there were eggs on top of me. 
 

 Isabel met an enormous bear, Isabel, Isabel, didn't care;The bear was hungry, the bear was ravenous, The bear's big mouth was cruel and cavernous. The bear said, Isabel, glad to meet you, How do, Isabel, now I'll eat you! Isabel, Isabel, didn't worry. Isabel didn't scream or scurry. She washed her hands, and she straightened her hair up, Then Isabel quietly ate the bear up. Once in a night as black as pitch Isabel met a wicked old witch.the witch's face was cross and wrinkled, The witch's gums with teeth were sprinkled. Ho, ho, Isabel! The old witch crowed, I'll turn you into an ugly toad! Isabel, Isabel, didn't worry, Isabel didn't scream or scurry, She showed no rage, and she showed no rancor, But she turned the witch into milk and drank her. Isabel met a hideous giant, Isabel continued self-reliant. The giant was hairy, the giant was horrid, He had one eye in the middle of his forehead. Good morning, Isabel, the giant said, I'll grind your bones to make my bread. Isabel, Isabel, didn't worry, Isabel didn't scream or scurry. She nibbled the zwieback that she always fed off, And when it was gone, she cut the giant's head off. Isabel met a troublesome doctor, He punched, and he poked till he really shocked her. The doctor's talk was of coughs and Chillán the doctor's satchel bulged with pills. The doctor said unto Isabel, Swallow this, it will make you well. Isabel, Isabel, didn't worry, Isabel didn't scream or scurry. She took those pills from the pill concocted, And Isabel calmly cured the doctor. 
 

 I am in need of music that would flower my fretful, feeling fingertips, Over my bitter-tainted, trembling lips, With melody, deep, clear, and liquid-slow. Oh, for the healing swaying, old and low, Of some song sung to rest the tired dead, A song to fall like water on my head, And over quivering limbs, dream flushed to glow! There is a magic made by melody:A spell of rest, and quiet breath, and cooler, that sinks through fading colors deep the subaqueous stillness of the sea, And floats forever in a moon-green pool, Held in the arms of rhythm and of sleep. 
 

 THIS is thy hour O Soul, thy free flight into the wordless, Away from books, away from art, the day erased, the lesson done, Thee fully forth emerging, silent, gazing, pondering the themes thou lowest best.  Night, sleep, death and the stars. 
 

 Death be not proud, though some have called theeMighty and dreadful, for, thou art not SOE, For, those, whom thou think'st, thou dost overthrow, Die not, poor death, nor yet canst thou kill me. From rest and sleep, which but thy pictures bee, Much pleasure, then from thee, much more must flow, And soonest our best men with the doe GOE, Rest of their bones, and souls deliveries. Thou art slave to Fate, Chance, kings, and desperate men, And dost with poison, Warren, and sickness dwell, And poppies, or charms can make us sleep as well, And better than thy stroke; why swell'st thou then? One short sleep past, wee wake eternally, And death shall be no more; death, thou shalt die. 
 

 This girl child was born as usual and presented dolls that did pee-peeand miniature GE stoves and iron sand wee lipsticks the color of cherry candy. Then in the magic of puberty, a classmate said:You have a great big nose and fat legs. She was healthy, tested intelligent, possessed strong arms and back, abundant sexual drive and manual dexterity. She went to and fro apologizing. Everyone saw a fat nose on thick legs. She was advised to play coy, exhorted to come on hearty, exercise, diet, smile and wheedle. Her good nature wore outline a fan belt. So she cut off her nose and her leg sand offered them up. In the casket displayed on satin she lay with the undertaker's cosmetics painted on, a turned-up putty nose, dressed in a pink and white nightie. Doesn't she look pretty? Everyone said. Consummation at last. To every woman a happy ending. 
 

 The whole idea of it makes me feel like I'm coming down with something, something worse than any stomach ache or the headaches I get from reading in bad light--a kind of measles of the spirit, a mumps of the psyche, a disfiguring chicken pox of the soul. You tell me it is too early to be looking back, but that is because you have forgotten the perfect simplicity of being one and the beautiful complexity introduced by two. But I can lie on my bed and remember every digit. At four, I was an Arabian wizard. I could make myself invisible by drinking a glass of milk a certain way. At seven, I was a soldier, at nine a prince. But now I am mostly at the window watching the late afternoon light. Back then it never fell so solemnly against the side of my tree house, and my bicycle never leaned against the garages it does today, all the dark blue speed drained out of it. This is the beginning of sadness, I say to myself, as I walk through the universe in my sneakers. It is time to say good-bye to my imaginary friends, time to turn the first big number. It seems only yesterday I used to believe there was nothing under my skin but light. If you cut me I could shine. But now when I fall upon the sidewalks of life, I skin my knees. I bleed. 
 

 A woman who my mother knowsCame in and took off all her clothes. Said I, not being very old,'By golly gosh, you must be cold!'' No, no!' she cried. 'Indeed I'm not! I'm feeling devilishly hot!' 
 

 Laugh, and the world laughs with you; Weep, and you weep alone. For the sad old earth must borrow its mirth, But has trouble enough of its own. Sing, and the hills will answer; Sigh, it is lost on the air. The echoes bound to a joyful sound, But shrink from voicing care. Rejoice, and men will seek you; Grieve, and they turn and go. They want full measure of all your pleasure, But they do not need your woe. Be glad, and your friends are many; Be sad, and you lose them all. There are none to decline your nectar wine, But alone you must drink life's gall. Feast, and your halls are crowded; Fast, and the world goes by. Succeed and give, and it helps you live, But no man can help you die. There is room in the halls of pleasureful a long and lordly train, But one by one we must all file through the narrow aisles of pain. 
 

 “Is there anybody there?” said the Traveler, Knocking on the moonlit door;And his horse in the silence champed the grass the forest's ferny floor;And a bird flew up out of the turret, Above the Traveler's head:And he smote upon the door again a second time;”Is there anybody there?” he said. But no one descended to the Traveler;No head from the leaf-fringed sillLeaned over and looked into his gray eyes, Where he stood perplexed and still. But only a host of phantom listenersThat dwelt in the lone house thenStood listening in the quiet of the moonlight that voice from the world of men:Stood thronging the faint moonbeams on the dark stair, That goes down to the empty hall, Hearkening in an air stirred and shaken the lonely Traveler's call. And he felt in his heart their strangeness, Their stillness answering his cry, While his horse moved, cropping the dark turf,'Neath the starred and leafy sky;For he suddenly smote on the door, evenLouder, and lifted his head:--”Tell them I came, and no one answered, That I kept my word,” he said.Never the least stir made the listeners, Though every word he spadeful echoing through the showiness of the still houseroom the one man left awake:A, they heard his foot upon the stirrup, And the sound of iron on stone, And how the silence surged softly backward, When the plunging hoofs were gone. 
 

 The sea is calm to-night. The tide is full, the moon lies hereupon the straits; — on the French coast the lightless and is gone; the cliffs of England stand, Glimmering and vast, out in the tranquil bay. Come to the window, sweet is the night-air! Only, from the long line of sprayer the sea meets the moon-blanch'd land, Listen! You hear the grating roof pebbles which the waves draw back, and fling, At their return, up the high strand, Begin, and cease, and then again begin, With tremulous cadence slow, and bridge eternal note of sadness in. Sophocles long gathered it on the {AE}mean, and it broughtInto his mind the turbid ebb and floor human misery; behind also in the sound a thought, Hearing it by this distant northern sea. The Sea of Faiths once, too, at the full, and round earth's shortly like the folds of a bright girdle furl'd. But now I only hearts melancholy, long, withdrawing roar, Retreating, to the breath the night-wind, down the vast edges reread naked shingles of the world. Ah, love, let us be true one another! For the world, which seems lie before us like a land of dreams, So various, so beautiful, so new, Hath really neither joy, nor love, nor light, Nor certitude, nor peace, nor help for pain; And we are here as on a Darling plainest with confused alarms of struggle and flight, Where ignorant armies clash by night. 
 

 Be glad your nose is on your face, not pasted on some other place, for if it were where it is not, you might dislike your nose a lot. Imagine if your precious nose were sandwiched in between your toes, that clearly would not be a treat, for you'd be forced to smell your feet. Your nose would be a source of dread were it attached atop your head, it soon would drive you to despair, forever tickled by your hair. Within your ear, your nose would bean absolute catastrophe, for when you were obliged to sneeze, your brain would rattle from the breeze. Your nose, instead, through thick and thin, remains between your eyes and chin, not pasted on some other place--be glad your nose is on your face! 
 

 Pounds of pain punctured my progressions of trouble terminated my tranquilitySwarms of stress subtracted my substance heart exploded like a thousand thunders mind melted and my spirit splinteredHanging by a thread destined to burst tried to wash away the wounds with words the stains were deeply dyed in concrete colorsVerbal detergents were badly and sadly defeatedVerbosity crumbled, fell at my feet and retreated Internal torment was the architect of my demiseTerrorizing my thoughts and hijacking my hope Music tried to massage me out of my miserable though the words were so wonderful And the melody so moving and majesticMisfortune only mushroomed and multiplied I sought solution in the fraternity of friends their fantastic fellowship fell flat on its faces the vanity of my vicissitudes vented and vomitedCausing emotional dehydration and mental suffocationPounds of pain to be pushed stupendous swarms of stress to secrete But nothing happened until a tear fell from my eye It impacted me so powerfully that I began to cry felt so happy that I jumped for joy I was like a kid with a brand new from that day I celebrated the power of a Zealand with anyone who would listen, share: Hand picked from the clouds of my heartProviding me with an excellent new start remarrying the DNA of brainwashing away hurtful stains reexpressing unspeakable feelingsCreating new channels of healing tearTraveling through tunnels of tragedyTransporting tremendous tons of therapy tear	Rushing into a river of reformation Creating a deluge of consolation retiring down walls of internal imprisonmentBuilding beautiful bridges of betterment tear Providing homeostasisAverting my crisis tearSeasoned with the salt of realityRescued me from the claws of insanity overflowing directly from the tear in my soulAnchoring my feet and making me whole overmuch thanks to you my dear tearoom are the reason I'm still here 
 

 Said Hamlet to Ophelia, I'll draw a sketch of thee, What kind of pencil shall I use? 2B or not 2B? 
 

 To see a World in a Grain of Standard a Heaven in a Wild Flower, Hold Infinity in the palm of your handed Eternity in an hour. A Robin Red breast in a Campus all Heaven in a Rage. A dove house fill'd with doves & PigeonsShudders Hell tho' all its regions. A dog star'd at his Master's GatePredicts the ruin of the State. A Horse miss'd upon the Robocalls to Heaven for Human blood. Each outcry of the hunted Hara fiber from the Brain does tear. A Skylark wounded in the wing,A cherub does cease to sing.The Game Cock clip'd and arm'd for fifties the Rising Sun fright. Every Wolf's & Lion's hellraiser from Hell a Human Soul. The wild deer, wand'ring here & there, Keeps the Human Soul from Care. The Lamb miss'd breeds public strand yet forgives the Butcher's Knife. The Bat that flits at close of Events left the Brain that won't believe. The Owl that calls upon the NightS peaks the Unbeliever's fright. He who shall hurt the little WrenS hall never be below'd by Men. He who the Ox to wrath has move'shall never be by Woman love'd. The wanton Boy that kills the Shall feel the Spider's enmity. He who torments the Chaser's spriteWeaves a Bower in endless Night. The Caterpillar on the LeafRepeats to thee thy Mother's grief. Kill not the Moth nor Butterfly, For the Last Judgement drawer nigh. He who shall train the Horse to Marshall never pass the Polar Bar. The Beggar's Dog & Widow's Cat, Feed them & thou wilt grow fat. The Gnat that sings his Summer's songPoison gets from Slander's tongue. The poison of the Snake & Newts the sweat of Envy's Foot. The poison of the Honey Bees the Artist's Jealousy. The Prince's Robes & Beggars' Nagware Toadstools on the Miser's Bags. A truth that's told with bad intentness all the Lies you can invent. It is right it should be so;Man was made for Joy & Woe;And when this we rightly Northrop' the World we safely go. Joy & Woe are woven fine, A Clothing for the Soul divine;Under every grief & minerals a joy with silken twine. The Babe is more than swaddling Bands;Throughout all these Human Sandstorms were made, & born were hands, Every Farmer Understands. Every Tear from Every Becomes a Babe in Eternity. This is caught by Females Brighton return'd to its own delight. The Bleat, the Bark, Bellow & Roarer Waves that Beat on Heaven's Shore. The Babe that weeps the Rod beneathWrites Revenge in realms of death. The Beggar's Rags, fluttering in Air, Does to Rag the Heavens tear. The Soldier arm'd with Sword & Gun, Palsied strikes the Summer's Sun. The poor Man's Farthing is worth Korean all the Gold on Africa's Shore. One Mite wrung from the Laborer's handball buy & sell the Miser's lands:Or, if protected from on high, Does that whole Nation sell & buy. He who mocks the Infant's FaithS hall be mock'd in Age & Death. He who shall teach the Child to Double rotting Grave shall né'er get out. He who respects the Infant's faithTriumph's over Hell & Death. The Child's Toys & the Old Man's Reasons the Fruits of the Two seasons. The Questioner, who sits so sly, Shall never know how to Reply. He who replies to words of DoubtDoth put the Light of Knowledge out. The Strongest Poison ever knownCame from Caesar's Laurel Crown. Nought can deform the Human Apelike the Armour's iron brace. When Gold & Gems adorn the Photo peaceful Arts shall Envy Bow. A Riddle or the Cricket's Cross to Doubt a fit Reply. The Emmett's Inch & Eagle's Mileage Lame Philosophy to smile. He who Doubts from what he sees Will né'er believe, do what you Please. If the Sun & Moon should doubted'd immediately Go out. To be in a Passion you Good may do, But no Good if a Passion is in you. The Whore & Gambler, by the Stateliness'd, build that Nation's Fate. The Harlot's cry from Street to StreetS hall weave Old England's winding Sheet. The Winner's Shout, the Loser's Curse, Dance before dead England's Hearse. Every Night & every Console to Misery are Born. Every Morn & every Lightsome are Born to sweet Delight. Some AR Born to sweet Delight, Some are born to Endless Night. We are led to Believe a Lichen we see not Tho' the Which was Born in a Night to Perish in a Eighteen the Soul Slept in Beams of Light. God Appears & God is Light those poor Souls who dwell in the Night, But does a Human Form Display those who Dwell in Realms of day. 
 

 You're sad because you're sad. It's psychic. It's the age. It's chemical. Go see a shrink or take a pill, or hug your sadness like an eyeless doll you need to sleep. Well, all children are sad but some get over it. Count your blessings. Better than that, buy a hat. Buy a coat or pet. Take up dancing to forget. Forget what? Your sadness, your shadow, whatever it was that was done to youth day of the lawn party when you came inside flushed with the sun, your mouth sulky with sugar, in your new dress with the ribbon and the ice-cream smear, and said to yourself in the bathroom, I am not the favorite child. My darling, when it comes right down to stand the light fails and the fog rolls inland you're trapped in your overturned body under a blanket or burning car, and the red flame is seeping out of you and igniting the tarmac beside your header else the floor, or else the pillow, none of us is; or else we all are. 
 

 HAD I the heavens' embroidered cloths, Enwrought with golden and silver light, The blue and the dim and the dark cloths night and light and the half-light, I would spread the cloths under your feet:But I, being poor, have only my dreams;I have spread my dreams under your feet;Tread softly because you tread on my dreams? 
 

 The fountains mingle with the river, And the rivers with the ocean; The winds of heaven mix forever With a sweet emotion; Nothing in the world is single; All things by a law divine In another's being mingled- Why not I with thine? See, the mountains kiss high heaven, And the waves clasp one another; No sister flower could be forgiven If it disdained its brother; And the sunlight clasps the earth, And the moonbeams kiss the sea; — What are all these kissing worth, If thou kiss not me? 
 

 What passing-bells for these who die as cattle? Only the monstrous anger of the guns. Only the stuttering rifles' rapid rattle Can patter out their hasty orisons. No mockeries now for them; no prayers nor bells; Nor any voice of mourning save the choirs, The shrill, demented choirs of wailing shells; And bugles calling for them from sad shires. What candles may be held to speed them all? Not in the hands of boys, but in their eyes Shall shine the holy glimmers of good-byes. The pallor of girls' brows shall be their pall; Their flowers the tenderness of patient minds, And each slow dusk a drawing-down of blinds. 
 

 I loved you, and I probably still do, And for a while the feeling may remain... But let my love no longer trouble you, I do not wish to cause you any pain. I loved you; and the hopelessness I knew, The jealousy, the shyness — though in vain -Made up a love so tender and so trues may God grant you to be loved again. Translated by Genoa Gracie, 11/10/95 
 

 The life that I have Is all that I have And the life that I have Is yours The love that I have the life that I have Is yours and yours and yours. A sleep I shall have rest I shall have Yet death will be but a pastor the peace of my years In the long green grass Will be yours and yours and yours. 
 

 «Let this fluffy snow fall upon dreams and make them shine! »Set free, Your breath smoothens unshaken skies; Your perception scratches unopened realities. Is it a diversion -maybe- for lost thoughts, For lost faces and sins? Looking the other way out of fear or Embarrassment, waking up next morning, You should then airshow to keep alive the drowsing mind, While trying to shove washer plait of hair, Jammed in the eyes of memory. Ah. Those haunting memories! Was her pain reached she asserted «That one is my spoiled dress! My party dressWhich your eyes, filled with lust, tore off of me.»? Hardly a twist of fate thatMultivalent perception which madeVisionary —FancifulYour unnecessary waiting. Because she didn't come back. Even at dawn. Even in your expectation. Now your pain screams only through silenceWhen you sink your fingers despite your bleeding heart —A sheer Griffith no voice anymoreBecause day in day out, year after yearEverything becomes habit. Until, Gazing at the fluffy snow falling, caught a glimpse of her —Along with whiff of her perfume. Peering deeply into your eyesore spoke words of healing with a promise -possibly-: A new life is looming beyond the whitened Fields of your mind »Hushed words, uttered under her breath, Not to scrape the purity of the night. Was it a prophecy? The celebration of a triumph or failure —A bloodcurdling nightmare? Enough! I'm fed up! I stare at my bloody fingers faintly sigh.(Florence,2014) Copyright © Fabricio Rossini — All rights reserved. 
 

 I think awhile of Love, and while I think, Love is to me a world, Sole meat and sweetest drink, And close connecting link Tween heaven and earth. I only know it is, not how or why, My greatest happiness; However hard I try, Not if I were to die, Can I explain. I fain would ask my friend how it can be, But when the time arrives, Then Love is more lovely Than anything to me, And, so I'm dumb. For if the truth were known, Love cannot speak, But only thinks and does; Though surely out 'twill leak Without the help of Greek, Or any tongue. A man may love the truth and practice it, Beauty he may admire, And goodness not omit, As much as may befit To reverence. But only when these three together meet, As they always incline, And make one soul the seat, And favorite retreat, Of loveliness; When under kindred shape, like loves and hates And a kindred nature, Proclaim us to be mates, Exposed to equal fates Eternally; And each may other help, and service do, Drawing Love's bands more tight, Service he né'er shall rue While one and one make two, And two are one; In such case only doth man fully prove as man can do, What power there is in Love His inmost soul to move Restlessly. ______ Two sturdy oaks I mean, which side by side, Withstand the winter's storm, And spite of wind and tide, Grow up the meadow's pride, For both are strong Above they barely touch, but undermined Down to their deepest source, Admiring you shall find Their roots are intertwined Inset'rally. 
 

 All you who sleep tonight from the ones you love, No hand to left or highland emptiness above -Know that you aren't alone whole world shares your tears, Some for two nights or one, And some for all their years. 
 

 I am: yet what I am none cares or knows, My friends forsake me like a memory lost; I am the self-consumer of my woes, They rise and vanish in oblivious host, Like shades in love and death's oblivion lost; And, yet I am! And live with shadows ostinato the nothingness of scorn and noise, Into the living sea of waking dreams, Where there is neither sense of life nor joys, But the vast shipwreck of my life's esteems; And e'en the dearest- that I loved the best- Are strange- nay, rather stranger than the rest. I long for scenes where man has never trod; A place where woman never soil'd or wept; There to abide with my creator, God, And sleep as I in childhood sweetly slept:Troubling and untroubled where I lie; The grass below- above the vaulted sky. 
 

 Once, when I was young and true, Someone left me sad-Broke my brittle heart in two; And that is very bad. Love is for unlucky folk, Love is but a curse. Once there was a heart I broke; And that, I think, is worse. 
 

 To keep your marriage brimmingWith love in the loving cup, Whenever you’re wrong, admit it; Whenever you’re right, shut up. 
 

 If you die before me would jump down into your grave and hug you so innocently that angels will become jealous. I shall kiss you. So intimately shall I kiss you that your breath becomes mine. In one breath of love shall we merge into hugs of true joy. Your heart shall beaten rhythms unheard like the drums of the desert and the wild forest in the night. You shall murmur in my ears: 'Oppress me to your chest; Tear open your chest, Make way for me to enter into your loving heart that beats only for me in resounding colors. Tell me please Oh my lovers it a rainbow that I see? Or the glow of a burning pyre? Why is it that I cannot utter it in words? Tell me glorious angels of love: What am I experiencing in uncountable moments of indescribable inner comfort? Shivering in your presence shall long to dance with you. If the dark souls lead you to Hades will dance and dance with you even in the nether world. We shall dance soft and then wild. We shall dance together as one body and soul and break the fetters of hell through love that emanates from our dance. Dance so long and fine like a poem until the Lords of the dark would faint. Breaking the fetters of Hades the white angels attired in beauty shall fly down to pick you up on golden cradle sand carry you to the world of God. Soyou will be free and fly away from me into the world of the heavens where angels shall kiss your sacred body. You will be attired in gold and white and in varied colors in tune with the flowers of heaven. Then you need no space to live and breathe. Into that world of purity you will grand I will be here on earth dreaming of your joys with the Heavenly spirits. Shall I wait? Shall I wait at dusk and dawning sobs and a heaving herewith such desire and passion to reach you one day in your world of happiness.(It is the belief that once your lady love dies before you, she has to go to the Hades and there she has to dance so fiercely and lovingly to make the Lords of Darkness faint, and then she shall be free from the chains of hell? Here the living lover is ready to go to hell to dance with her most fiercely and save her from the hell) 
 

 What is this life if, full of care, We have no time to stand and stare. No time to stand beneath the bouffant stare as long as sheep or cows. No time to see, when woods we pass, Where squirrels hide their nuts in grass. No time to see, in broad daylight, Streams full of stars, like skies at night. No time to turn at Beauty's glance, And watch her feet, how they can dance. No time to wait till her mouth Heinrich that smile her eyes began. A poor life this is if, full of care, We have no time to stand and stare. 
 

 I knew a simple soldier who grinned at life in empty joy, Slept soundly through the lonesome dark, And whistled early with the lark. In winter trenches, cowed and glum, With clumps and lice and lack of rum, He put a bullet through his brain. No one spoke of him again. You smug-faced crowds with kindling Erewhon cheer when soldier lads march by, Sneak home and pray you'll never another hell where youth and laughter go. 
 

 One Christmas was so much like another, in those years around the sea-town corner now and out of all sound except the distant speaking of the voices I sometimes hear a moment before sleep, that I can never remember whether it snowed for six days and six nights when I was twelve or whether it snowed for twelve days and twelve nights when I was six. All the Christmases roll down toward the two-tongued sea, like a cold and headlong moon bundling down the sky that was our street; and they stop at the rim of the ice-edged fish-freezing waves, and I plunge my hands in the snow and bring out whatever I can find. In goes my hand into that wool-white bell-tongued ball of holidays resting at the rim of the carol-singing sea, and outcome Mrs. Brother and the firemen. It was on the afternoon of the Christmas Eve, and I was in Mrs. Brother's garden, waiting for cats, with her son Jim. It was snowing. It was always snowing at Christmas. December, in my memory, is white as Lapland, though there were no reindeer. But there were cats. Patient, cold and callous, our hands wrapped in socks, we waited to snowball the cats. Sleek and long as jaguars and horrible-whiskered, spitting and snarling, they would slink and sidle over the white back-garden walls, and the lynx-eyed hunters, Jim and I, fur-capped and moccasined trappers from Hudson Bay, off Mumbles Road, would hurl our deadly snowballs at the green of their eyes. The wise cats never appeared. We were so still, Eskimo-footed arctic marksmen in the muffling silence of the eternal snows — eternal, ever since Wednesday — that we never heard Mrs. Brother's first cry from her igloo at the bottom of the garden. Or, if we heard it at all, it was, to us, like the far-off challenge of our enemy and prey, the neighbor's polar cat. But soon the voice grew louder.” Fire!” cried Mrs. Brother, and she beat the dinner-gong. And we ran down the garden, with the snowballs in our arms, toward the house; and smoke, indeed, was pouring out of the dining-room, and the gong was dominating, and Mrs. Brother was announcing ruin like a town crier in Pompeii. This was better than all the cats in Wales standing on the wall in a row. We bounded into the house, laden with snowballs, and stopped at the open door of the smoke-filled room. Something was burning all right; perhaps it was Mr. Brother, who always slept there after midday dinner with a newspaper over his face. But he was standing in the middle of the room, saying, “A fine Christmas!” and smacking at the smoke with a slipper.” Call the fire brigade,” cried Mrs. Brother as she beat the gong.” There won't be there,” said Mr. Brother, “it's Christmas.” There was no fire to be seen, only clouds of smoke and Mr. Brother standing in the middle of them, waving his slipper as though he were conducting.” Do something,” he said. And we threw all our snowballs into the smoke — I think we missed Mr. Brother — and ran out of the house to the telephone box.” Let's call the police as well,” Jim said. “And the ambulance.” “And Ernie Jenkins, he likes fires.” But we only called the fire brigade, and soon the fire engine came and three tall men in helmets brought a hose into the house and Mr. Brother got out just in time before they turned it on. Nobody could have had a noisier Christmas Eve. And when the firemen turned off the hose and were standing in the wet, smoky room, Jim's Aunt, Miss. Brother, came downstairs and peered in at them. Jim and I waited, very quietly, to hear what she would say to them. She said the right thing, always. She looked at the three tall firemen in their shining helmets, standing among the smoke and cinders and dissolving snowballs, and she said, “Would you like anything to read?” Years and years ago, when I was a boy, when there were wolves in Wales, and birds the color of red-flannel petticoats whisked past the harp-shaped hills, when we sang and wallowed all night and day in caves that smelt like Sunday afternoons in damp front farmhouse parlors, and we chased, with the jawbones of deacons, the English and the bears, before the motor car, before the wheel, before the duchess-faced horse, when we rode the daft and happy hills bareback, it snowed and it snowed. But here a small boy says: “It snowed last year, too. I made a snowman and my brother knocked it down and I knocked my brother down, and then we had tea.”" But that was not the same snow,” I say. “Our snow was not only shaken from whitewash buckets down the sky, it came showing out of the ground and swam and drifted out of the arms and hands and bodies of the trees; snow grew overnight on the roofs of the houses like a pure and grandfather moss, minutely -ivied the walls and settled on the postman, opening the gate, like a dumb, numb thunder-storm of white, torn Christmas cards.”" Were there postmen then, too?”" With sprinkling eyes and wind-cherried noses, on spread, frozen feet they crunched up to the doors and mittened on them manfully. But all that the children could hear was a ringing of bells.”" You mean that the postman went rat-a-tat-tat and the doors rang?”" I mean that the bells the children could hear were inside them.”" I only hear sometimes thunder, never bells.”" There were church bells, too.”" Inside them?”" No, no, no, in the bat-black, snow-white belfries, tugged by bishops and storks. And they rang their tidings over the bandaged town, over the frozen foam of the powder and ice-cream hills, over the crackling sea. It seemed that all the churches boomed for joy under my window; and the weathercocks crew for Christmas, on our fence.”" Get back to the postmen”"They were just ordinary postmen, found of walking and dogs and Christmas and the snow. They knocked on the doors with blue knuckles ....”" Ours has got a black knocker....”" And then they stood on the white Welcome mat in the little, drifted porches and huffed and puffed, making ghosts with their breath, and jogged from foot to foot like small boys wanting to go out.”" And then the presents?”" And then the Presents, after the Christmas box. And the cold postman, with a rose on his button-nose, tingled down the tea-tray-slithered run of the chilly glinting hill. He went in his ice-bound boots like a man on fishmonger's slabs. “He wagged his bag like a frozen camel's hump, dizzily turned the corner on one foot, and, by God, he was gone.”" Get back to the Presents.”" There were the Useful Presents: engulfing mufflers of the old coach days, and mittens made for giant sloths; zebra scarfs of a substance like silky gum that could be tug-o'-warred down to the galoshes; blinding tam-o'shatters like patchwork tea cozies and bunny-suited busbies and balaclavas for victims of head-shrinking tribes; from aunts who always wore wool next to the skin there were mustached and rasping vests that made you wonder why the aunts had any skin left at all; and once I had a little crocheted nose bag from an aunt now, alas, no longer whinnying with us. And pictureless books in which small boys, though warned with quotations not to, would skate on Farmer Giles' pond and did and drowned; and books that told me everything about the wasp, except why.”" Go on the Useless Presents.”" Bags of moist and many-colored jelly babies and a folded flag and a false nose and a tram-conductor's cap and a machine that punched tickets and rang a bell; never a catapult; once, by mistake that no one could explain, a little hatchet; and a celluloid duck that made, when you pressed it, a most unbuckle sound, a mewing moo that an ambitious cat might make who wished to be a cow; and a painting book in which I could make the grass, the trees, the sea and the animals any color I pleased, and still the dazzling sky-blue sheep are grazing in the red field under the rainbow-billed and pea-green birds. Hard-boiled, toffee, fudge and all sorts, crunches, crackers, humbugs, glaciers, marzipan, and butter welsh for the Welsh. And troops of bright tin soldiers who, if they could not fight, could always run. And Snakes-and-Families and Happy Ladders. And Easy Hobbi-Games for Little Engineers, complete with instructions. Oh, easy for Leonardo! And a whistle to make the dogs bark to wake up the old man next door to make him beat on the wall with his stick to shake our picture off the wall. And a packet of cigarettes: you put one in your mouth and you stood at the corner of the street and you waited for hours, in vain, for an old lady to scold you for smoking a cigarette, and then with a smirk you ate it. And then it was breakfast under the balloons.”" Were there Uncles like in our house?”" There are always Uncles at Christmas. The same Uncles. And on Christmas morning, with dog-disturbing whistle and sugar fags, I would scour the swatched town for the news of the little world, and find always a dead bird by the Post Office or by the white deserted swings; perhaps a robin, all but one of his fires out. Men and women wading or scooping back from chapel, with taproom noses and wind-bussed cheeks, all albinos, huddles their stiff black jarring feathers against the irreligious snow. Mistletoe hung from the gas brackets in all the front parlors; there was sherry and walnuts and bottled beer and crackers by the dessertspoons; and cats in their turnabouts watched the fires; and the high-heaped fire spat, all ready for the chestnuts and the mulling pokers. Some few large men sat in the front parlors, without their collars, Uncles almost certainly, trying their new cigars, holding them out judiciously at arms' length, returning them to their mouths, coughing, then holding them out again as though waiting for the explosion; and some few small aunts, not wanted in the kitchen, nor anywhere else for that matter, sat on the very edge of their chairs, poised and brittle, afraid to break, like faded cups and saucers.” Not many those mornings trod the piling streets: an old man always, fawn-bowlered, yellow-gloved and, at this time of year, with spats of snow, would take his constitutional to the white bowling green and back, as he would take it wet or fire on Christmas Day or Doomsday; sometimes two hale young men, with big pipes blazing, no overcoats and wind blown scarfs, would trudge, speaking, down to the forlorn sea, to work up an appetite, to blow away the fumes, who knows, to walk into the waves until nothing of them was left but the two furling smoke clouds of their inextinguishable friars. Then I would be slap-dashing home, the gravy smell of the dinners of others, the bird smell, the brandy, the pudding and mince, coiling up to my nostrils, when out of a snow-clogged side lane would come a boy the spit of myself, with a pink-tipped cigarette and the violet past of a black eye, cocky as a bullfinch, leering all to himself. I hated him on sight and sound, and would be about to put my dog whistle to my lips and blow him off the face of Christmas when suddenly he, with a violet wink, put his whistle to his lips and blew so stridently, so high, so exquisitely loud, that gobbling faces, their cheeks bulged with goose, would press against their tinkled windows, the whole length of the white echoing street. For dinner, we had turkey and blazing pudding, and after dinner the Uncles sat in front of the fire, loosened all buttons, put their large moist hands over their watch chains, groaned a little and slept. Mothers, aunts and sisters scuttled to and fro, bearing tureens. Auntie Bessie, who had already been frightened, twice, by a clock-work mouse, whimpered at the sideboard and had some elderberry wine. The dog was sick. Auntie Dose had to have three aspirins, but Auntie Hannah, who liked port, stood in the middle of the snowbound backyard, singing like a big-bosomed thrush. I would blow up balloons to see how big they would blow up to; and, when they burst, which they all did, the Uncles jumped and rumbled. In the rich and heavy afternoon, the Uncles breathing like dolphins and the snow descending, I would sit among festoons and Chinese lanterns and nibble dates and try to make a model man-o'-war, following the Instructions for Little Engineers, and produce what might be mistaken for a sea-going tramcar. Or I would go out, my bright new boots squeaking, into the white world, on to the seaward hill, to call on Jim and Dan and Jack and to pad through the still streets, leaving huge footprints on the hidden pavements.” I bet people will think there's been hippos.”" What would you do if you saw a hippo coming down our street?”" I'd go like this, bang! I'd throw him over the railings and roll him down the hill and then I'd tickle him under the ear, and he'd wag his tail.”" What would you do if you saw two hippos?” Iron-flanked and bellowing he-hippos clanked and battered through the scudding snow toward us as we passed Mr. Daniel's house.” Let's post Mr. Daniel a snow-ball through his letter box.”" Let's write things in the snow.”" Let's write, 'Mr. Daniel looks like a spaniel' all over his lawn.” Or we walked on the white shore. “Can the fishes see it's snowing?” The silent one-clouded heavens drifted on to the sea. Now we were snow-blind travelers lost on the north hills, and vast dew lapped dogs, with flasks round their necks, ambled and shambled up to us, baying “Excelsior.” We returned home through the poor streets where only a few children fumbled with bare red fingers in the wheel-rutted snow and cat-called after us, their voices fading away, as we trudged uphill, into the cries of the dock birds and the hooting of ships out in the whirling bay. And then, at tea the recovered Uncles would be jolly; and the ice cake loomed in the center of the table like a marble grave. Auntie Hannah laced her tea with rum, because it was only once a year. Bring out the tall tales now that we told by the fire as the gaslight bubbled like a diver. Ghosts wooed like owls in the long nights when I dared not look over my shoulder; animals lurked in the cubbyhole under the stairs and the gas meter ticked. And I remember that we went singing carols once, when there wasn't the shaving of a moon to light the flying streets. At the end of a long road was a drive that led to a large house, and we stumbled up the darkness of the drive that night, each one of us afraid, each one holding a stone in his hand in case, and all of us to brave to say a word. The wind through the trees made noises as of old and unpleasant and maybe web footed men wheezing in caves. We reached the black bulk of the house. “What shall we give them? Hark the Herald?”" No,” Jack said, “Good King Fences. I'll count three.” One, two three, and we began to sing, our voices high and seemingly distant in the snow-felted darkness round the house that was occupied by nobody we knew. We stood close together, near the dark door. Good King Fences looked out On the Feast of Stephen ... And then a small, dry voice, like the voice of someone who has not spoken for a long time, joined our singing: a small, dry, eggshell voice from the other side of the door: a small dry voice through the keyhole. And when we stopped running we were outside our house; the front room was lovely; balloons floated under the hot-water-bottle-gulping gas; everything was good again and shone over the town.” Perhaps it was a ghost,” Jim said. “Perhaps it was trolls,” Dan said, who was always reading.” Let's go in and see if there's any jelly left,” Jack said. And we did that. Always on Christmas night there was music. An uncle played the fiddle, a cousin sang “Cherry Ripe,” and another uncle sang “Drake's Drum.” It was very warm in the little house. Auntie Hannah, who had got on to the parsnip wine, sang a song about Bleeding Hearts and Death, and then another in which she said her heart was like a Bird's Nest; and then everybody laughed again; and then I went to bed. Looking through my bedroom window, out into the moonlight and the unending smoke-colored snow, I could see the lights in the windows of all the other houses on our hill and hear the music rising from them up the long, steady falling night. I turned the gas down, I got into bed. I said some words to the close and holy darkness, and then I slept. 
 

 The moment when, after many years of hard work and a long voyage you stand in the center of your room, house, half-acre, square mile, island, country, knowing at last how you got there, and say, I own this, is the same moment when the trees unloose their soft arms from around you, the birds take back their language, the cliffs fissure and collapse, the air moves back from you like a waveband you can't breathe. No, they whisper. You own nothing. You were a visitor, time after time climbing the hill, planting the flag, proclaiming. We never belonged to you. You never found us. It was always the other way round. 
 

 Once riding in old Baltimore, Heart-filled, head-filled with glee, I saw a Baltimore an Keep looking straight at me. Now I was eight and very small, And he was no whit bigger,And, so I smiled, but he poked out His tongue, and called me, 'Nigger.' I saw the whole of Baltimore From May until December;Of all the things that happened there That's all that I remember. 
 

 If I were in charge of the world'd cancel oatmeal, Monday mornings, Allergy shots, and also Sara Steinberg. If I were in charge of the worthier'd be brighter nights lights, Healthier hamsters, basketball baskets forty-eight inches lower. If I were in charge of the world wouldn't have lonely. You wouldn't have clean. You wouldn't have bedtimes. Or “Don't punch your sister.” You wouldn't even have sisters. If I were in charge of the world chocolate sundae with whipped cream and nuts would be a vegetables 007 movies would be G, And a person who sometimes forgot to brush, And sometimes forgot to flush, Would still be allowed to be In charge of the world. 
 

 THAT crazed girl improvising her music. Her poetry, dancing upon the shore, Her soul in division from itselfClimbing, falling She knew not where, Hiding amid the cargo of a steamship, Her knee-cap broken, that girl I declared beautiful lofty thing, or a thingHeroically lost, heroically found. No matter what disaster occurred stood in desperate music wound, Wound, wound, and she made in her triumphWhere the bales and the baskets lay No common intelligible soundest sang, 'O sea-starved, hungry sea.' 
 

 Beautiful acetate like a daisy opens its petals to the Suns do open your face to me as I turn the page. Enchanting smiley man would be under your spell, Oh, beauty of a magazine. How many poems have been written to you? How many Dante's have written to you, Beatrice? To your obsessive illusion you manufacture fantasy. But today I won't make one more Cliched write this poem to you. No, no more clichés. This poem is dedicated to those womenWhose beauty is in their charm, In their intelligence, In their character, Not on their fabricated looks. This poem is to your women, That like a Scheherazade wake everyday with a new story to tell, A story that sings for Changsha hopes for battles: Battles for the love of the united fleshBattles for passions aroused by a new day Battle for the neglected rights just battles to survive one more night. Yes, to you women in a world of paint you, bright star in this ever-spending university you, fighter of a thousand-and-one fights you, friend of my heart. From now on, my head won't look down to a magazine Rather, it will contemplate the highland its bright stars, And so, no more clichés. 
 

 No distance ever separatesDreams and desires No mirror ever dissolvesReflection and watering one's eyewear graph would you make lines of thought? The triangle of paints without any angleCountless recessive dreams alike sleep and night-watchAre never the same! Names are forgottenCodes alone come to minding nuclear setupsDreams of radiant generations smitten atomic explosionsCities sinkNuclei dissipateOrbits dwindleWhat remains Are Terra and solid the dance of death God is a casualty. A moment of brightness In a light heartbreaking into smithereens In a million ENSAN accident — debut not an event History is continuityBroken once Telescopic eyes, tired out, give their distance watchingLost planetsBygone epochesHave no interposition. Who will look forFlowersIn spring-fresh hands tiny tots? Who will seeDreamsIn eyes-yours and mine In centuries to be? No one is sure things lost in water! Poem by: Nasser Ahmed Nair,1980. Translated from Urdu to English by Dr. PayPal Anand and from English to Spanish by Dr. Teresina Pereira. Copyrights © All rights reserved. 
 

 When I have fears that I may cease to be Before my pen has gleaned'd my teeming brain, Before high-piled books, in character, Hold like rich garners the full ripen'd grain; When I behold, upon the night's Starr'd face, Huge cloudy symbols of a high romance, And think that I may never live to trace Their shadows, with the magic hand of chance; And when I feel, fair creature of an hour, That I shall never look upon thee more, Never have relish in the fairy power Of reflecting love; — then on the shore Of the wide world I stand alone, and think Till love and fame to nothingness do sink. 
 

 Sweet moment, stay with me, and pray do not flee so soon, Let me enjoy the bliss of that first kiss beneath the moon. I wish to cradle this feeling, that has only just been found, A feeling that has unexpectedly turned my world around. Do not depart, Oh please remain within my heart awhile, So that I can Seymour you once more, and hold you in my smile. 
 

 As soon as Fred gets out of bed, his underwear goes on his head. His mother laughs, “Don't put it there, a head's no place for underwear!” But near his ears, above his brains, is where Fred's underwear remains. At night when Fred goes back to bed, he deftly plucks it off his head. His mother switches off the light and softly croons, “Good night! Good night!” And then, for reasons no one knows, Fred's underwear goes on his toes. 
 

 In Flanders fields the poppies blowBetween the crosses, row on row, That mark our place; and in the scythe larks, still bravely singing, scarce heard amid the guns below. We are the Dead. Short days age lived, felt dawn, saw sunset glow, Loved and were loved, and now we lie, In Flanders fields. Take up our quarrel with the foe:To you from failing hands we throttle torch; be yours to hold it high. If ye break faith with us who died shall not sleep, though poppies growing Flanders fields. 
 

 Where are you, my beloved? Are you in that little Paradise, watering the flowers who look upon you As infants look upon the breast of their mothers? Or are you in your chamber where the shrine of Virtue has been placed in your honor, and upon Which you offer my heart and soul as sacrifice? Or amongst the books, seeking human knowledge, While you are replete with heavenly wisdom? Oh, companion of my soul, where are you? Are you Praying in the temple? Or calling Nature in the Field, haven of your dreams? Are you in the huts of the poor, consoling the Broken-hearted with the sweetness of your soul, and Filling their hands with your bounty? You are God's spirit everywhere; You are stronger than the ages. Do you have memory of the day we met, when the halo of You spirit surrounded us, and the Angels of Love Floated about, singing the praise of the soul's deed? Do you recollect our sitting in the shade of the Branches, sheltering ourselves from Humanity, as the ribs Protect the divine secret of the heart from injury? Remember you the trails and forest we walked, with hands Joined, and our heads leaning against each other, as if We were hiding ourselves within ourselves? Recall you the hour I bade you farewell, And the Maritime kiss you placed on my lips? That kiss taught me that joining of lips in Love Reveals heavenly secrets which the tongue cannot utter! That kiss was introduction to a great sigh, Like the Almighty's breath that turned earth into man. That sigh led my way into the spiritual world, Announcing the glory of my soul; and there It shall perpetuate until again we meet. I remember when you kissed me and kissed me, With tears coursing your cheeks, and you said, “Earthly bodies must often separate for earthly purpose, And must live apart impelled by worldly intent. “But the spirit remains joined safely in the hands of Love, until death arrives and takes joined souls to God. “Go, my beloved; Love has chosen you her delegate; Over her, for she is Beauty who offers to her follower The cup of the sweetness of life. As for my own empty arms, your love shall remain my Comforting groom; you memory, my Eternal wedding.” Where are you now, my other self? Are you awake in The silence of the night? Let the clean breeze convey To you my heart's every beat and affection. Are you fondling my face in your memory? That image Is no longer my own, for Sorrow has dropped his Shadow on my happy countenance of the past. Sobs have withered my eyes which reflected your beauty And dried my lips which you sweetened with kisses. Where are you, my beloved? Do you hear my weeping From beyond the ocean? Do you understand my need? Do you know the greatness of my patience? Is there any spirit in the air capable of conveying To you the breath of this dying youth? Is there any Secret communication between angels that will carry to You my complaint? Where are you, my beautiful star? The obscurity of life Has cast me upon its bosom; sorrow has conquered me. Sail your smile into the air; it will reach and enliven me! Breathe your fragrance into the air; it will sustain me! Where are you, me beloved? Oh, how great is Love! And how little am I! 
 

 About Ben Ahem (may his tribe increase!) Awoke one night from a deep dream of peace, And saw, within the moonlight in his room, Making it rich, and like a lily in bloom, An angel writing in a book of gold:— Exceeding peace had made Ben Ahem bold, And to the Presence in the room he said”What writes thou?”—The vision raised its head, And with a look made of all sweet accord, Answered “The names of those who love the Lord.”" And is mine one?” said About. “Nay, not so,”Replied the angel. About spoke more low, But cheery still, and said “I pray thee, then, Write me as one that loves his fellow men.” The angel wrote, and vanished. The next nightie came again with a great wakening light, And showed the names whom love of God had blessed, And lo! Ben Ahem's name led all the rest. Anonymous Submission. 
 

 When I consider how my light is Spencer half my days in this dark world and wide, And that one talent which is death to sidelong'd with me useless, though my soul more Benito serve therewith my Maker, and presently true account, lest he's returning chide,”Doth God exact day-labour, light denied?” I fondly ask. But Patience, to preventThat murmur, soon replies: “God doth not neither man's work or his own gifts: who bestiary his mild yoke, they serve him best. His States kingly; thousands at his bidding speeding post o'er land and ocean without rest:They also serve who only stand and wait.” 
 

 If I should die, think only this of me:That there's some corner of a foreign fieldsman is for ever England. There shall been that rich earth a richer dust concealed;A dust whom England bore, shaped, made aware, Gave, once, her flowers to love, her ways to roam, A body of England's, breathing English air, Washed by the rivers, blessed by suns of home. And think, this heart, all evil shed away, A pulse in the eternal mind, no lessees somewhere back the thoughts by England given;Her sights and sounds; dreams happy as her day;And laughter, learned of friends; and gentleness, In hearts at peace, under an English heaven. 
 

 'Help, help, said a man. 'I'm drowning.'' Hang on, said a man from the shore.' Help, help, said the man. 'I'm not clowning.'' Yes, I know, I heard you before. Be patient dear man who is drowning, You, see I've got a disease. I'm waiting for a Doctor J. Browning. So do be patient please.'' How long, said the man who was drowning. 'Will it take for the Doc to arrive? ''Not very long, said the man with the disease. 'Till then try staying alive.'' Very well, said the man who was drowning. 'I'll try and stay afloat. By reciting the poems of Browning other things he wrote.'' Help, help, said the man with the disease, 'I suddenly feel quite ill.'' Keep calm.' said the man who was drowning, Breathe deeply and lie quite still.'' Oh dear, said the man with the awful disease. 'I think I'm going to die.'' Farewell, said the man who was drowning. Said the man with the disease, 'goodbye.' So the man who was drowning, drowndedAnd the man with the disease past away. But apart from that, And a fire in my flat, It's been a very nice day. 
 

 Lie down lass, with me, in sage green meadowsYour blouse flouncing open, in the teasing breathe meadows, feel so cotton, this time of overcome lay beside me, and sense my desires. Open field, honeysuckle....arouses my yen For passion 'neath TH' sparkle by TH' mid-noon sun No clouds abide ours cape of choice to pleasures, again I ask you lass, come lay beside me. Come close, love, as these hungry emerald asked to stare into your warm, black diamond estate my hand in bond, I assure you, my love', That emeralds and diamonds never fade away. 
 

 I came as tomorrowSwaddled in unawareness your warm godmother…… Without your choicer predestined to up dateline timeout human rebut before overgrew into flesh and Wordsworth is unfinished creation-A precipitation of bloodBecame my transcendence. 
 

 Praise the spells and bless the charms, I found April in my arms. April golden, April cloudy, Gracious, cruel, tender, rowdy;April soft in flowered languor, April cold with sudden anger, Ever changing, ever true --I love April, I love you. 
 

 There are strange things done in the midnight sun By the men who moil for gold;The Arctic trails have their secret tales That would make your blood run cold;The Northern Lights have seen queer sights, But the queerest they ever did seems that night on the marge of Lake Le barge I cremated Sam McGee. Now Sam McGee was from Tennessee, where the cotton blooms and blows. Why he left his home in the South to roam 'round the Pole, God only knows. He was always cold, but the land of gold seemed to hold him like a spell;Though he'd often say in his homely way that he'd “sooner live in hell”. On a Christmas Day we were mushing our way over the Dawson trail. Talk of your cold! Through the parka's fold it stabbed like a driven nail. If our eyes we'd close, then the lashes froze till sometimes we couldn't see;It wasn't much fun, but the only one to whimper was Sam McGee. And that very night, as we lay packed tight in our robes beneath the snow, And the dogs were fed, and the stars o'er head were dancing heel and toe, He turned to me, and “Cap,” says he, “I'll cash in this trip, I guess;And if I do, I'm asking that you won't refuse my last request.” Well, he seemed so low that I couldn't say no; then he says with a sort of moan:”It's the cursed cold, and it's got right hold till I'm chilled clean through to the bone. Yet 'main't being dead -- it's my awful dread of the icy grave that pains;So I want you to swear that, foul or fair, you'll cremate my last remains.” A pal's last need is a thing to heed, so I swore I would not fail;And we started on at the streak of dawn; but God! He looked ghastly pale. He crouched on the sleigh, and he raved all day of his home in Tennessee;And before nightfall a corpse was all that was left of Sam McGee. There wasn't a breath in that land of death, and I hurried, horror-driven, With a corpse half hid that I couldn't get rid, because of a promise given;It was lashed to the sleigh, and it seemed to say:”You may tax your brawn and brains, But you promised true, and it's up to you to cremate those last remains.” Now a promise made is a debt unpaid, and the trail has its own stern code. In the days to come, though my lips were dumb, in my heart how I cursed that load. In the long, long night, by the lone firelight, while the huskies, round in a ring, Howled out their woes to the homeless snows -- O God! How I loathed the thing. And every day that quiet clay seemed to heavy and heavier grow;And on I went, though the dogs were spent and the grub was getting low;The trail was bad, and I felt half mad, but I swore I would not give in;And I'd often sing to the hateful thing, and it hearkened with a grin. Till I came to the marge of Lake Le barge, and a derelict there lay;It was jammed in the ice, but I saw in a trice it was called the “Alice May”. And I looked at it, and I thought a bit, and I looked at my frozen chum;Then “Here,” said I, with a sudden cry, “is my cre-ma-tor-eum.” Some planks I tore from the cabin floor, and I lit the boiler fire;Some coal I found that was lying around, and I heaped the fuel higher;The flames just soared, and the furnace roared -- such a blaze you seldom see;And I burrowed a hole in the glowing coal, and I stuffed in Sam McGee. Then I made a hike, for I didn't like to hear him sizzle so;And the heavens scowled, and the huskies howled, and the wind began to blow. It was icy cold, but the hot sweat rolled down my cheeks, and I don't know why;And the greasy smoke in an inky cloak went streaking down the sky. I do not know how long in the snow I wrestled with grisly fear;But the stars came out, and they danced about ere again I ventured near;I was sick with dread, but I bravely said: “I'll just take a peep inside. I guess he's cooked, and it's time I looked”;. . . Then the door I opened wide. And there sat Sam, looking cool and calm, in the heart of the furnace roar;And he wore a smile you could see a mile, and he said: “Please close that door. It's fine in here, but I greatly fear you'll let in the cold and storm --Since I left Plum tree, down in Tennessee, it's the first time I've been warm.” There are strange things done in the midnight sun By the men who moil for gold;The Arctic trails have their secret tales That would make your blood run cold;The Northern Lights have seen queer sights, But the queerest they ever did seems that night on the marge of Lake Le barge I cremated Sam McGee. 
 

 Amongst the flowers I am alone with my pot of wine drinking by myself; then lifting my cup I asked the mo onto drink with me, its reflection and mine in the wine cup, just the three of us; then I sigh for the moon cannot drink, and my shadow goes emptily along with me never saying a word;with no other friends here, I can but use these two for company;in the time of happiness, Too must be happy with all around me; I sit and singeing it is as if the moon accompanies me; then if Dance, it is my shadow that dances along with me; while still not drunk, I am glad to make the moon and my shadow into friends, but then when have drunk too much, well part; yet these are friends I can always count on these who have no emotion whatsoever; I hope that one day we three will meet again, deep in the Milky Way. 
 

 Slowly, silently, now the moonwalks the night in her silver shewn;This way, and that, she peers, and sessile fruit upon silver trees;One by one the casements catcher beams beneath the silvery thatch;Couched in his kennel, like a log, With paws of silver sleeps the dog;From their shadowy cote the white breasts peep doves in silver feathered sleep harvest mouse goes scampering by, With silver claws, and silver eye;And loveless fish in the water gleam, By silver reeds in a silver stream. 
 

 Your pain is the breaking of the shell that encloses your understanding. Even as the stone of the fruit must break, that its heart may stand in the sun, so must you know pain. And could you keep your heart in wonder at the daily miracles of your life, your pain would not seem less wondrous than your joy; And you would accept the seasons of your heart, even as you have always accepted the seasons that pass over your fields. And you would watch with serenity through the winters of your grief. Much of your pain is self-chosen. It is the bitter potion by which the physician within you heals your sick self. Therefore, trust the physician, and drink his remedy in silence and tranquility: For his hand, though heavy and hard, is guided by the tender hand of the Unseen, And the cup he brings, though it burns your lips, has been fashioned of the clay which the Potter has moistened with His own sacred tears. 
 

 A child said, What is the grass? Fetching it to me with full	hands;How could I answer the child?. . . . I do not know what it	is any more than he. I guess it must be the flag of my disposition, out of hopeful	green stuff woven. Or I guess it is the handkerchief of the Lord, A scented gift and remembrance resignedly dropped, Bearing the owner's name someway in the corners, that we	may see and remark, and say Whose? Or I guess the grass is itself a child. . . .the produced babe	of the vegetation. Or I guess it is a uniform hieroglyphic, And it means, Sprouting alike in broad zones and narrow	zones, Growing among black folks as among white, Kanuck, Tuckahoe, Congressman, Cuff, I give them the same, I receive them the same. And now it seems to me the beautiful uncut hair of graves. Tenderly will I use you curling grass, It maybe you transpire from the breasts of young men, It may be if I had known them I would have loved them;It maybe you are from old people and from women, and	from offspring taken soon out of their mother's laps, And here you are the mother's laps. This grass is very dark to be from the white heads of old	mothers, Darker than the colorless beards of old men, Dark to come from under the faint red roofs of mouths. O I perceive after all so many uttering tongues! And I perceive they do not come from the roofs of mouths	for nothing. I wish I could translate the hints about the dead young men	and women, And the hints about old men and mothers, and the offspring	taken soon out of their laps. What do you think has become of the young and old men? What do you think has become of the women and	children? They are alive and well somewhere;The smallest sprouts show there is really no death, And if ever there was it led forward life, and does not wait	at the end to arrest it, And ceased the moment life appeared. All goes onward and outward. . . .and nothing collapses, And to die is different from what anyone supposed, and	luckier. 
 

 Expect nothing. Live frugally surprise.become a stranger need of pity, if compassion be freelyGiven outtake only enoughStop short of urge to leather purge away the need. Wish for nothing Langerhans your own small hereto greater than a star; Tame wild disappointmentWith caress unmoved and climate of it a Parker your soul. Discover the reason whys tiny human midgetExists at also scared unwisest expect nothing. Live frugally surprise. 
 

 I caught a tremendous fish and held him beside the boat half out of water, with my hook fast in a corner of his mouth. He didn't fight. He hadn't fought at all. He hung a grunting weight, battered and venerable and homely. Here and there his brown skin hung in strips like ancient wallpaper, and its pattern of darker brown was like wallpaper:shapes like full-blown roses stained and lost through age. He was speckled with barnacles, fine rosettes of lime, and infested with tiny white sea-lice, and underneath two or three rags of green weed hung down. While his gills were breathing in the terrible oxygen- the frightening gills, fresh and crisp with blood, that can cut so badly- I thought of the coarse white flesh packed in like feathers, the big bones and the little bones, the dramatic reds and blacks of his shiny entrails, and the pink swim-bladderlike a big peony. I looked into his eyes which were far larger than mine but shallower, and yellowed, the irises backed and packed with tarnished tinfoil seen through the lenses of old scratched isinglass. They shifted a little, but motto return my stare.- It was more like the tipping of an object toward the light. I admired his sullen face, the mechanism of his jaw, and then I saw that from his lower lip- if you could call it a lip grim, wet, and weapon like, hung five old pieces of fish-line, or four and a wire leader with the swivel still attached, with all their five big hooks grown firmly in his mouth. A green line, frayed at the end where he broke it, two heavier lines, and a fine black thread still crimped from the strain and snap when it broke, and he got away. Like medals with their ribbons frayed and wavering, a five-haired beard of wisdom trailing from his aching jaw. I stared and stared and victory filled up the little rented boat, from the pool of bilge where oil had spread a rainbow around the rusted engine to the Bailey rusted orange, the sun-cracked thwarts, the oarlocks on their strings, the gunnels- until everything was rainbow, rainbow, rainbow! And I let the fish go. 
 

 LIFE, believe, is not a dream So dark as sages say;Oft a little morning rain Foretells a pleasant day. Sometimes there are clouds of gloom, But these are transient all;If the shower will make the roses bloom, O why lament its fall ?  Rapidly, merrily, Life's sunny hours flit by, Gratefully, cheerily, Enjoy them as they fly ! What though Death at times steps in And calls our Best away ? What though sorrow seems to win, O'er hope, a heavy sway ? Yet hope again elastic springs, Unconquered, though she fell;Still buoyant are her golden wings, Still strong to bear us well.  Manfully, fearlessly, The day of trial bear, For gloriously, victoriously, Can courage quell despair ! 
 

 No one worth possessing Can be quite possessed;Lay that on your heart, My young angry dear;This truth, this hard and precious stone, Lay it on your hot cheek, Let it hide your tear. Hold it like a crystalline you are alone gaze in the depths of the icy stone. Long, look long and you will be blessed:No one worth possessing Can be quite possessed. 
 

 In Xanadu did Kublai Khan stately pleasure-dome decree :Where Ralph, the sacred river, run-through caverns measureless to man Down to a sunless sea. So twice five miles of fertile groundwater walls and towers were girdled round :And there were gardens bright with sinuous rills, Where blossomed many an incense-bearing tree ;And here were forests ancient as the hills, Enfolding sunny spots of greenery. But oh ! That deep romantic chasm which slantedDown the green hill athwart a cedar cover ! A savage place ! As holy and enchanted As e'er beneath a waning moon was haunted woman wailing for her demon-lover ! And from this chasm, with ceaseless turmoil seething, As if this earth in fast thick pants were breathing, A mighty fountain moment was forced :Amid whose swift half-intermitted bursting fragments vaulted like rebounding hail, Or chaff grain beneath the thresher's flail :And 'mid these dancing rocks at once and Evert flung up moment the sacred river. Five miles meandering with a many motionThrough wood and dale the sacred river ran, Then reached the caverns measureless to man, And sank in tumult to a lifeless ocean :And 'mid this tumult Kublai heard from ancestral voices prophesying war !  The shadow of the dome of pleasure Floated midway on the waves ; Where was heard the mingled measure From the fountain and the caves. It was a miracle of rare device, A sunny pleasure-dome with caves of ice !  A damsel with a dulcimer In a vision once I saw : It was an Abyssinian maid, And on her dulcimer she played, Singing of Mount Abort.  Could I revive within me Her symphony and song, To such a deep delight 'would win me, That with music loud and long, I would build that dome in air, That sunny dome ! Those caves of ice ! And all who heard should see them there, And all should cry, Beware ! Beware ! His flashing eyes, his floating hair ! Weave a circle round him thrice, And close your eyes with holy dread, For he on honey-dew hath fed, And drunk the milk of Paradise. 
 

 Be nice to you turkeys dis Christmas Cos' turkeys just wanna had fun Turkeys are cool, turkeys are wicked An every turkey has a Mum. Be nice to you turkeys dis Christmas, Don't eat it, keep it alive, It could be yum ate, a not on your plate Say, Yo! Turkey I'm on your side. I got lots of friends who are turkeys And all of them fear Christmas time, Day want to enjoy it, day say humans destroyed it An human are out of dear mind, Yeah, I got lots of friends who are turkeys Day all had a right to a life, Not to be caged up a genetically made up By any farmer an wife. Turkeys just want to play reggae Turkeys just wanna hip-hop Can you imagine a nice young turkey saying, Oi cannot wait for DE chop, Turkeys like getting presents, day want to watch Christmas TV, Turkeys had brains an turkey feel pain In many ways like you an. I once knew a turkey called........ Turkey He said “Benji explains to me please, Who put DE turkey in Christmas An what happens to Christmas trees?”, I said “I am not too sure turkey But its nothing to do did Christ Mass Humans get greedy a waste more Dan need be An business man me loads cash'. Be nice to you turkey dis Christmas Invite them indoors Fe sum greens Let them eat cake a let them partake In a plate of organic grown beans, Be nice to you turkey dis Christmas An spare them DE cut of DE knife, Join Turkeys United a day'll be delighted An you will me knew friends 'FOR LIFE'. 
 

 Abortions will not let you forget. You remember the children you got that you did not get, The damp small pulps with a little or with no hair, The singers and workers that never handled the air. You will never neglect or battle, or silence or buy with a sweet. You will never wind up the sucking-thumbOr scuttle off ghosts that come. You will never leave them, controlling your luscious sigh, Return for a snack of them, with gobbling mother-eye. I have heard in the voices of the wind the voices of my dim killed	children. I have contracted. I have eased dim dears at the breasts they could never suck. I have said, Sweets, if I sinned, if I seizedYour Auckland your lives from your unfinished reach, If I stole your births and your names, Your straight baby tears and your games, Your stilted or lovely loves, your tumults, your marriages, aches,	and your deaths, If I poisoned the beginnings of your breaths, Believe that even in my deliberateness I was not deliberate. Though why should I whine, Whine that the crime was other than mine?--Since anyhow you are dead. Or rather, or instead, You were never made. But that too, I am afraid, Is faulty: oh, what shall I say, how is the truth to be said? You were born, you had body, you died. It is just that you never giggled or planned or cried. Believe me, I loved you all. Believe me, I knew you, though faintly, and I loved, I loved squall. 
 

 I né'er was struck before that hour With love so sudden and so sweet, Her face it bloomed like a sweet flower And stole my heart away complete. My face turned pale as deadly pale. My legs refused to walk away, And when she looked, what could I ail? My life and all seemed turned to clay. And then my blood rushed to my face And took my eyesight quite away, The trees and bushes round the place Seemed midnight at noonday. I could not see a single thing, Words from my eyes did start -- They spoke as chords do from the string, And blood burnt round my heart. Are flowers the winter's choice? Is love's bed always snow? She seemed to hear my silent voice, Not love's appeals to know. I never saw so sweet a face As that I stood before. My heart has left its dwelling-place And can return no more. 
 

 When these graven lines you see, Traveler, do not pity me; Though I am among the dead, Let no mournful word be said. Children that I leave behind, And their children, all were kind; Near to them and to my wife, I was happy all my life. My three sons I married right, And their sons I rocked at night; Death nor sorrow never brought Cause for one unhappy thought. Now, and with no need of tears, Here they leave me, full of years,-- Leave me to my quiet rest In the region of the blessed. 
 

 When despair grows in mean I wake in the night at the least sounding fear of what my life and my children's lives may be, I go and lie down where the wood drake rests in his beauty on the water, and the great heron feeds. I come into the peace of wild things who do not tax their lives with forethought of grief. I come into the presence of still water. And I feel above me the day-blind stars waiting for their light. For a time rest in the grace of the world, and am free. 
 

 I am not yet born; O hear me. Let not the bloodsucking bat or the rat or the stoat or the club-footed ghoul come near me. I am not yet born, console me. I fear that the human race may with tall walls wall me, with strong drugs dope me, with wise lies lure me, on black racks rack me, in blood-baths roll me. I am not yet born; provide with water to dandle me, grass to grow for me, trees to talk to me, sky to sing to me, birds and a white light in the back of my mind to guide me. I am not yet born; forgive for the sins that in me the world shall commit, my words when they speak me, my thoughts when they think me, my treason engendered by traitors beyond me, my life when they murder by means of my hands, my death when they live me. I am not yet born; rehearse main the parts I must play and the cues I must take when old men lecture me, bureaucrats hector me, mountains frown at me, lovers laugh at me, the white waves call me to folly and the desert calls me to doom and the beggar refuses my gift and my children curse me. I am not yet born; O hear me, Let not the man who is beast or who thinks he is God come near me. I am not yet born; O fill with strength against those who would freeze my humanity, would dragoon me into a lethal automaton, would make me a cog in a machine, a thing with one face, a thing, and against all those who would dissipate my entirety, would blow me like thistledown hither and thither or hither and thither like water held in the hands would spill me. Let them not make me a stone and let them not spill me.Otherwise, kill me. 
 

 Come to me in the silence of the night;Come in the speaking silence of a dream;Come with soft rounded cheeks and eyes as brights sunlight on a stream;Come back in tears, O memory, hope, love of finished years. O dream how sweet, too sweet, too bitter-sweet, Whose wakening should have been in Paradise, Where souls brimful of love abide and meet;Where thirsting longing swatch the slow doormat opening, letting in, lets out no more. Yet come to me in dreams, that I may lively very life again though cold in death:Come back to me in dreams, that I may impulse for pulse, breath for breath:Speak low, lean lows long ago, my love, how long ago. 
 

The text of this poem could not be published because of Copyright laws.


 It little profits that an idle king, By this still hearth, among these barren crags, Match'd with an aged wife, I mete and dole Unequal laws unto a savage race, That hoard, and sleep, and feed, and know not me. I cannot rest from travel; I will drink Life to the lees.  All times I have enjoyed'd Greatly, have suffered'd greatly, both with those That loved me, and alone; on shore, and when Tho' scudding drifts the rainy Hyades Next the dim sea.  I am become a name; For always roaming with a hungry heart Much have I seen and known,-- cities of men And manners, climates, councils, governments, Myself not least, but honor'd of them all,-- And drunk delight of battle with my peers, Far on the ringing plains of windy Troy. I am a part of all that I have met; Yet all experience is an arch whereto' Gleams that unravel'd world whose margin fades For ever and for ever when I move. How dull it is to pause, to make an end, To rust burnish'd, not to shine in use! As tho' to breathe were life!  Life piled on life Were all too little, and of one to me Little remains; but every hour is saved >From that eternal silence, something more, A bringer of new things; and vile it were For some three suns to store and hoard myself, And this gray spirit yearning in desire To follow knowledge like a sinking star, Beyond the utmost bound of human thought. This is my son, mine own Telemachus, to whom I leave the scepter and the isle,-- Well-loved of me, discerning to fulfill This labor, by slow prudence to make mild A rugged people, and tho' soft degrees Subdue them to the useful and the good. Most blameless is he, centered in the sphere Of common duties, decent not to fail In offices of tenderness, and pay Meet adoration to my household gods, When I am gone.  He works his work, I mine. There lies the port; the vessel puffs her sail; There gloom the dark, broad seas.  My mariners, Souls that have toil'd, and wrought, and thought with me,-- That ever with a frolic welcome took The thunder and the sunshine, and opposed Free hearts, free foreheads,-- you and I are old; Old age hath yet his honor and his toil. Death closes all; but something ere the end, Some work of noble note, may yet be done, Not unbecoming men that strove with Gods. The lights begin to twinkle from the rocks; The long day wanes; the slow moon climbs; the deep Moans round with many voices.  Come, my friends. 'T is not too late to seek a newer world. Push off, and sitting well in order smite The sounding furrows; for my purpose holds To sail beyond the sunset, and the baths Of all the western stars, until I die. It may be that the gulfs will wash us down; It maybe we shall touch the Happy Isles, And see the great Achilles, whom we knew. Tho' much is taken, much abides; and tho' We are not now that strength which in old days Moved earth and heaven, that which we are, we are,-- One equal temper of heroic hearts, Made weak by time and fate, but strong in will To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield. 
 

 This game is the way in which slaughter becomes an end in itself. ACTA est fibula plauditeThe play has been performed; applaud! Surely, less obvious ways exist Darkness seeks to manipulate us into its service. Actus non fact rum Nisei men sit REA. The act is not guilty unless the mind is also guilty. Once all of them have won a very special princess prize, the game is over....and they will never buy another one..... Alis grave nil. Nothing is heavy to those who have wingspan maybe we cannot understand what's going on, but we can understand that the players skillfully hide behind the walls.... They think.... Cessante ration Lewis essay IPSA led. When the reason for the law ceases, the law itself ceases. We seek escape from reality, we undermine our self-esteem. Maybe we are unable to see them, but we need to talk about this. And maybe they do not trust us when we tell them to come to us if they need to talk........about those who become their victims...... Sed apse Spirits postulate pro obis, minibus inenarrabilibus. But the same Spirit intercedes incessantly for us, with inexpressible groans. 
 
The page you are looking for might have been removed, had its name changed or is temporarily unavailable.
 This is the place.  Stand still, my steed, Let me review the scene, And summon from the shadowy Past The forms that once have been. The Past and Present here unite Beneath Time's flowing tide, Like footprints hidden by a brook, But seen on either side. Here runs the highway to the town; There the green lane descends, Through which I walked to church with thee, O gentlest of my friends! The shadow of the linden-trees Lay moving on the grass;Between them and the moving boughs, A shadow, thou didst pass.Thy dress was like the lilies, And thy heart as pure as they:One of God's holy messengers Did walk with me that day. I saw the branches of the trees Bend down thy touch to meet, The clover-blossoms in the grass Rise up to kiss thy feet,”Sleep, sleep to-day, tormenting cares, Of earth and folly born!” Solemnly sang the village choir On that sweet Sabbath morn. Through the closed blinds the golden sun Poured in a dusty beam, Like the celestial ladder seen By Jacob in his dream. And ever and anon, the wind, Sweet-scented with the hay, Turned o'er the hymn-book's fluttering leaves That on the window lay. Long was the good man's sermon, Yet it seemed not so to me;For he spake of Ruth the beautiful, And still I thought of thee. Long was the prayer he uttered, Yet it seemed not so to me;For in my heart I prayed with him, And still I thought of thee. But now, alas! The place seems changed; Thou art no longer here:Part of the sunshine of the scene With thee did disappear. Though thoughts, deep-rooted in my heart, Like pine-trees dark and high, Subdue the light of noon, and breathe A low and ceaseless sigh;This memory brightens o'er the past, As when the sun, concealedBehind some cloud that near us hangs Shines on a distant field. 
 

 All the birds have flown up and gone; A lonely cloud floats leisurely by. We never tire of looking at each other -Only the mountain and I. 
 

 Nobody heard him, the dead man, But still he lay moaning:I was much further out than you thought not waving but drowning. Poor chap, he always loved larking now he's dead It must have been too cold for him his heart gave way, They said. Oh, no no no, it was too cold always(Still the dead one lay moaning)I was much too far out all my highland not waving but drowning. 
 

 To be in love Is to touch with a lighter hand. In yourself you stretch, you are well. You look at things Through his eyes. A cardinal is red. A sky is blue. Suddenly you know he knows too. He is not there but You know you are tasting together The winter, or a light spring weather. His hand to take your hand is overmuch. Too much to bear. You cannot look in his eyes Because your pulse must not say What must not be said. When he Shuts a door- Is not there_ Your arms are water. And you are free With ghastly freedom. You are the beautiful half Of a golden hurt. You remember and covet his mouth To touch, to whisper on. Oh, when to declare Is certain Death! Oh, when to apprise Is to mesmerize, To see fall down, the Column of Gold, Into the commonest ash. Anonymous submission. 
 

 It may be misery not to sing at all, And to go silent through the brimming day; It may be misery never to be loved, But deeper griefs than these beset the way. To sing the perfect song, And by a half-tone lost the key, There the potent sorrow, there the grief, The pale, sad staring of Life's Tragedy. To have come near to the perfect love, Not the hot passion of tempered youth, But that which lies aside its vanity, And gives, for thy trusting worship, truth. This, this indeed is to be accursed, For if we mortals love, or if we sing, We count our joys not by what we have, But by what kept us from that perfect thing. 
 

 This poetry is like a rid dim DAT drops DE tongue fires a rid dim DAT shoots like shots Dis poetry is designed Fe Rankin Dance hall style, big mouth chanting, This poetry near put you to sleep Preaching follow me Like you is blind sheep, This poetry is not Party Political Not designed Fe dose who are critical. This poetry is did me when I gu to me bed It gets into me dreadlocks It lingers around me head Dis poetry goes did me as I pedal me bike Love tried Shakespeare, respect due dear But did is DE stuff I like. This poetry is not afraid of going Ina book Still this poetry need ears Fe hear an eye Fe had a look Dis poetry is Verbal Rid dim, no big words involved An if I have a problem DE rid dim gets it solved, Love tried to be more romantic, it does nu good for me So I ten a Reggae Rid dim a build me poetry, I could try to be more personal But YouGov heard it all before, Pages of written words not needed Brain has many words in store, You could call this poetry Dub Ranting DE tongue plays a beat DE body starts swanking, This poetry is quick a childish Dis poetry is Fe DE wise a foolish, Anybody can do it Fe free, This poetry is Fe you an, Donor stretch you imagination Dis poetry is Fe DE good of DE Nation, Chant, In DE morning I chant In DE night I chant In DE darkness An under DE spotlight, I pass through University I pass through Sociology An den I got a dread degree In Dreadful Ghetto logy. This poetry stays did me when I run or walk An when I am talking to myself in poetry I talk, This poetry is did me, Below me an above, This poetry's from inside me It goes to you Did Love. 
 
The page you are looking for might have been removed, had its name changed or is temporarily unavailable.
 The fog COMECON little cat feet. It sits looking over harbor and citron silent haunches and then moves on. 
 

 So much depends upon a red wheelbarrow glazed with rainwater beside the white chickens. 
 

 The whiskey on your breath Could make a small boy dizzy; But I hung on like death: Such waltzing was not easy. We romped until the pans Slid from the kitchen shelf; My mother's countenance Could not unknown itself. The hand that held my wrist Was battered on one knuckle; At every step you missed My right ear scraped a buckle. You beat time on my head With a palm caked hard by dirt, Then waltzed me off to bed Still clinging to your shirt. 
 

 And a woman who held a babe against her bosom said, 'Speak to us of Children.' And he said: Your children are not your children. They are the sons and daughters of Life's longing for itself. They come through you but not from you, And though they are with you, yet they belong not to you. You may give them your love but not your thoughts. For they have their own thoughts. You may house their bodies but not their souls, For their souls dwell in the house of tomorrow, which you cannot visit, not even in your dreams. You may strive to be like them, but seek not to make them like you. For life goes not backward nor tarries with yesterday. You are the bows from which your children as living arrows are sent forth. The archer sees the mark upon the path of the infinite, and He bends you with His might that His arrows may go swift and far. Let your bending in the archer's hand be for gladness; For even as he loves the arrow that flies, so He loves also the bow that is stable. 
 

 You fit into me like a hook into an area fish hookah open eye 
 

 If starry space no limit knows And sun succeeds to sun, There is no reason to suppose Our earth the only one.' Mid countless constellations cast A million worlds may be, With each a God to bless or blast And steer to destiny. Just think! A million gods or so To guide each vital stream, With over all to boss the show A Deity supreme. Such magnitudes oppress my mind; From cosmic space it swings;So ultimately glad to find Relief in little things. For look! Within my hollow hand, While round the earth careens, I hold a single grain of sand And wonder what it means. Ah! If I had the eyes to see, And brain to understand, I think Life's mystery might be Solved in this grain of sand. 
 

 If we must die, let it not be like shunted and penned in an inglorious spot, While round us bark the mad and hungry dogs, Making their mock at our accursed lot. If we must die, O let us nobly die, So that our precious blood may not be shed In vain; then even the monsters we defyShall be constrained to honor us though dead! O kinsmen! We must meet the common foe! Though far outnumbered let us show us brave, And for their thousand blows deal one death-blow! What though before us lies the open grave? Like men, we'll face the murderous, cowardly pack, Pressed to the wall, dying, but fighting back! 
 

 Do you remember an Inn, Miranda? Do you remember an Inn? And the wedding and the spreading the straw for a bedding, And the fleas that tease in the High Pyrenees, And the wine that tasted of tar? And the cheers and the jeers of the young muleteers(Under the vine of the dark veranda)? Do you remember an Inn, Miranda, Do you remember an Inn? And the cheers and the jeers of the young muleteers hadn't got a penny, And who weren't paying any, And the hammer at the doors and the din? And the hip! Hop! Hap! Of the Clapton the hands to the swirl and the twirl the girl gone chancing, Glancing,Dancing, Backing and advancing, Snapping of the clapper to the spin-out and in--And the ting, tong, tang of the guitar! Do you remember an Inn, Miranda? Do you remember an Inn?Never more;Miranda, Never more. Only the high peaks hear;And Aragon a torrent at the door. No sounding the walls of the halls where falls treason the feet of the dead to the ground, No sound:But the boom the far waterfall like doom. 
 

 I was stepping in to become young thought it is nice journey but too long am afraid and take care not to go wrong was expecting everything for songs am so much influenced by lady smiles has entered in life just before while'Life seems to be so interesting and fine want to dance on floor with glass of wine Miss, you can't be so rude For a word you have made prelude, All warmth and affection you have included Hate and distance you have excluded I never expected you to cast All doubts but trust should not last You were the first to realize it fatality known but never wore any kind of mast, Your innocence and name is kind to infuse Kind words for me but not meant to confuseTime was for decision but you never refusedAlways stood at right point and crisis defused Even amidst delicate moments You did not offer a word or comments were hurt most but you used simple word, Is it blessings to you or gift from Lord? I loved you most as your dearest friend Still you didn't put any word at the end, Kept me at dark or asked or any excuse Used otherwise it as pretext, denied or refused 'Miss' I miss you but you don't miss, Did not expect from you kind hug or simple Tissot even kind gesture or more of any show Still I miss you and never beat eyebrow Will this uncertainty remain or go? Life will be full of remorse but still I would forgoes there any restriction from your side or embargo? You always bear 'no entry' smile with logo You called on me for good luck and best wishes I remained dead as no water was available for fish, Maybe it is very hard to swallow for some reasons Why then there should be drought without any season? I was quick to grasp situation, Avoided unwarranted efforts for persuasion, Shock was sudden and heavy but came very late, I did accept it with grace and as part of fates didn't become mine for some reasons waited simply for spring seasons too eagerly longed for strong bonds I was inclined and very fondue had everything to loosest she had no option to choose did she take extreme step? She always used to call me as sweet babe It maybe her way of thinking It left me high and dry with blinkingWhat should I call her sacrifice? A step of dedication or break of promises? 
 

 Anyone here had a go at themselves for a laugh? Anyone opened their wrists with a blade in the bath? Those in the dark at the back, listen hard. Those at the fronting the know, those of us who have, hands up, let's show that inch of lacerated skin between the forearm and the fist. Let's tell it like it is: strong drink, a crimson tidemark round the tub, a yard of lint, white towel swashed a dozen times, still pink. Tough luck. A passion then for watches, bangles, cuffs. A likely story: you were lashed by brambles picking berries from the woods. Come clean, come good, repeat with me the punch line 'Just like blood'when those at the back rush forward to say how a little love goes a long long long way. 
 

 Love and lust are poles apart.  Lust is chaos, love is art.Love infinite, lust is finite. Love is sustained, lust is short. Love is spiritual, lust is physical. Love is ideal, lust is sensual. Love is selfless, lust is selfish Love immortal, lust is mortal. Love is productive, lust is destructive. Love is optional, lust is impulsive. Love is energetic, lust is crazy. Love is humanist, lust instinctive. Lust is rabid dog, love is pad agog. Love demands inner beauty, lust demands appearance. Lust starts from black holes of eyes, love from conscientious part of heart. Love develops in brain, lust develops in gonads. Lust stays on surface of the words, but love in depths of unconscious. Love is rationally emotional, lust is emotionally rational. Love is Allocate, lust is Psychopath. Love is Homeopath, lust is Sociopath. Love kisses, lust dishes. Love honors, lust ravishes. Love insight, lust is blind. Lust devours, Love nourishes. Love replays, lust betrays. Love impresses, lust oppresses. Love centralizes, lust strays. Love expresses, lust depresses. Love is healthy, lust is lame. Lust is gambling, love is game. Love is Platonic, lust is Bubonic. Lust is shameless, love is shame. Lust is volcano, love is rain. Love is Abel, lust is Cain. Prophets weep, Demons laugh. Love is fruitful, lust is vain. Love is need, lust is greed. Lust is maniac, love is sane. Lust is a beast, love is dived. Lust is hatred, love is novelist is passion, love compassion. Lust is beneath, love above. Love is even climbed, it is never lost. Lust is a decline, it is ever lost. Love is always true to the core but lust is hyperbole. Love provides endless satisfaction, lust ends at opposite pole. Love is the base of this universe, Lust is baseless in itself. My subject is my subject. Such enveloping my subject. Such as God to His universe. Such as Devil to this universe. Love is a sincerity and responsibility. Lust is insincerity, irresponsibility. Confirmation test is just, sacrifice or obedience. Both or only one is must. Lust is aimless without love. Love is armful without lust. My subject is thy subject. My subject is love and lust. I can tell you one secret. Love and lust are poles apart. But make union only when. Lust is second, love is first. Just, ask a victim of lust. 
 

 The world is a beautiful placebo be born into if you don't mind happiness not always beings very much fun if you don't mind a touch of hell now and then just when everything is fine because even in heaven they don't sin gall the Timothy world is a beautiful placebo be born into if you don't mind some people dying all the Timor maybe only starving some of the time which isn't half bad if it isn't youth the world is a beautiful placebo be born into if you don't much mind few dead mind sin the higher places or a bomb or two now and then in your upturned faces or such other improprieties as our Name Brand society is prey to with its men of distinction and its men of extinction and its priest sand other patrolmen and its various segregation sand congressional investigation sand other constipationsthat our fool fleshes heir tones the world is the best place of all for a lot of such things as making the fun scene and making the love scene and making the sad scene and singing low songs and having inspiration sand walking around looking at everything and smelling flower sand goosing statue sand even thinking and kissing people and making babies and wearing pant sand waving hats anddancingand going swimming in river son picnic sin the middle of the summer and just generally'living it up' Yes but then right in the middle of it comes the smiling mortician 
 

 My love is like to ice, and I to fire:How comes it then that this her cold so greats not dissolved through my so hot desire, But harder grows the more I her entreat? Or how comes it that my exceeding heats not allayed by her heart-frozen cold, But that I burn much more in boiling sweat, And feel my flames augmented manifold? What more miraculous thing may be told, That fire, which all things melt, should harden ice, And ice, which is congeals with senseless cold, Should Kindle Fire by wonderful device? Such is the power of love in gentle mind, That it can alter all the course of kind. 
 

 On Raglan Road on an autumn day I met her first and knew That her dark hair would weave a snare that I might one day rue; I saw the danger, yet I walked along the enchanted way, And I said, let grief be a fallen leaf at the dawning of the day. On Grafton Street in November we tripped lightly along the ledge Of the deep ravine where can be seen the worth of passion's pledge, The Queen of Hearts still making tarts and I are not making hay — O I loved too much and by such and such is happiness thrown away. I gave her gifts of the mind I gave her the secret sign that's known To the artists who have known the true gods of sound and stone And word and tint. I did not stint for I gave her poems to say. With her own name there and her own dark hair like clouds over fields of May On a quiet street where old ghosts meet I see her walking now Away from me so hurriedly my reason must allow That I had wooed not as I should a creature made of clay — When the angel woos the clay he'd lose his wings at the dawn of day. 
 

 Good-night? Ah! No; the hour is which severs those it should unite;Let us remain together still, Then it will be good night. How can I call the lone night good, Though thy sweet wishes wing its flight? Be it not said, thought, understood --Then it will be -- good night. To hearts which near each other mover evening close to morning light, The night is good; because, my love, They never say good-night. 
 

 I have eaten the plums that were in the icebox and which you were probablysavingfor breakfast Forgive Letha were delicious so sweet and so cold 
 

 He sat in a wheeled chair, waiting for dark, And shivered in his ghastly suit of gray, Legless, sewn short at elbow. Through the park Voices of boys rang saddening like a hymn, Voices of play and pleasure after day, Till gathering sleep had mothered them from him. About this time Town used to swing so gay When glow-lamps budded in the light blue trees, And girls glanced lovelier as the air grew dim,- In the old times, before he threw away his knees. Now he will never feel again how slim Girls' waists are, or how warm their subtle hands. All of them touch him like some queer disease. There was an artist silly for his face, For it was younger than his youth, last year. Now, he is old; his back will never brace; He's lost his color very far from here, Poured it down shell-holes till the veins ran dry, And half his lifetime lapsed in the hot race And leap of purple spurted from his thigh. One time he liked a blood-smear down his leg, After the matches, carried shoulder-high. It was after football, when he'd drunk a peg, He thought he'd better join. — He wonders why. Someone had said he'd look a god in kilts, That's why; and maybe, too, to please his Meg, Aye, that was it, to please the giddy jilts He asked to join. He didn't have to beg; Smiling they wrote his lie: aged nineteen years. Germans he scarcely thought of; all their guilt, And Austria's, did not move him. And no fears Of Fear came yet. He thought of jewelled hilts For daggers in plaid socks; of smart salutes; And care of arms; and leave; and pay arrears; Esprit DE corps; and hints for young recruits. And soon, he was drafted out with drums and cheers. Some cheered him home, but not as crowds cheer Goal. Only a solemn man who brought him fruits Thanked him; and then inquired about his soul. Now, he will spend a few sick years in institutes, And do what things the rules consider wise, And take whatever pity they may dole. Tonight he noticed how the women's eyes Passed from him to the strong men that were whole. How cold and late it is! Why don't they come And put him into bed? Why don't they come? 
 

 Let the snake wait under his weed and the writing be of words, slow and quick, sharp to strike, quiet to wait, sleepless.-- through metaphor to reconcile the people and the stones. Compose. (No ideas but in things) Invent! Saxifrage is my flower that splits the rocks. 
 

 And then the day came, when the risk to remain tighten a bud was more painful than the risk it took to Blossom. 
 

 I Remember, I Remember remember, I remember The house where I was born, The little window where the sun Came peeping in at morn; He never came a wink too soon Nor brought too long a day; But now, I often wish the night Had borne my breath away. I remember, I remember The roses red and white, The violets and the lily cups-- Those flowers made of light! The lilacs where the robin built, And where my brother set The laburnum on his birthday,-- The tree is living yet! I remember, I remember Where I was used to swinging, And thought the air must rush as fresh To swallows on the wing; My spirit flew in feathers then That is so heavy now, The summer pools could hardly cool The fever on my brow. I remember, I remember The fir-trees dark and high; I used to think their slender tops Were close against the sky: It was a childish ignorance, But now 'TIS little joy To know I'm farther off from Heaven Than when I was a boy. 
 

 The tree has entered my hands, The sap has ascended my arms, The tree has grown in my breast -Downward, The branches grow out of me, like arms. Tree you are, Moss you are, You are violets with wind above them. A child — so high — you are, And all this is folly to the world. 
 

 FERRARA. That's my last Duchess painted on the wall, Looking as if she were alive.  I Callahan piece a wonder, now: Fr Randolph's handworker busily a day, and there she stands. Will't please you sit and look at her? I said“For Randolph'' by design, for never readStrangers like you that pictured countenance, The depth and passion of its earnest glance, But to myself they turned (since none puts byte curtain I have drawn for you, but I)And seemed as they would ask me if they durst, How such a glance came there; so, not the firmware you to turn and ask thus.  Sir, 'twas other husband's presence only, called that spoof joy into the Duchess' cheek: perhaps Fr Randolph chanced to say “Her mantle laps“Over my lady's wrist too much,'' or “Paint“Must never hope to reproduce the faint“Half-flush that dies along her throat:'' such stuffs courtesy, she thought, and cause enough calling up that spot of joy.  She had heart---how shall I say?---too soon made glad, Too easily impressed; she liked what'Erse looked on, and her looks went everywhere.  Sir, 'twas all one! My favor at her breast, The dropping of the daylight in the West, The bough of cherries some officious foolproof in the orchard for her, the white Muleshoe rode with round the terrace---all and Beachwood draw from her alike the approving speech, Or blush, at least.  She thanked men, ---good! But thankedSomehow---I know not how---as if she ranked gift of a nine-hundred-years-old amenity anybody's gift.  Who'd stoop to blames sort of trifling? Even had you skill In speech---(which I have not)---to make your Willie clear to such a one, and say, “Just this“Or that in you disgusts me; here you miss,“Or there exceed the mark''---and if she herself be lessened so, nor plainly ether wits to yours, forsooth, and made excuse, ---E'en then would be some stooping; and I chooseNever to stoop.  Oh sir, she smiled, no doubt, Whene'er I passed her; but who passed withoutMuch the same smile? This grew; I gave commands;Then all smiles stopped together.  There she stands As if alive.  Will't please you rise? We'll mettle company below, then.  I repeat, The Count your master's known munificence ample warrant that now just pretence mine for dowry will be disallowed;Though his fair daughter's self, as I avowed At starting, is my object.  Nay, we'll together down, sir. Notice Neptune, though, Taming a sea-horse, thought a rarity, Which Claus of Innsbruck cast in bronze for me! 
 

 All nature has a feeling: woods, fields, broodmare life eternal: and in silence heaped happiness beyond the reach of books;There's nothing mortal in them; their decays the green life of change; to pass away come again in blooms revivified. Its birth was heaven, eternal it its stay, And with the sun and moon shall still abideBeneath their day and night and heaven wide. 
 

 You're in this dream of cotton plants. You raise a hoe, swing, and the first windfall with a sigh. You take another step, Chop, and the sigh comes again, Until you yourself are breathing that with each step, a sigh that will follow you into town. That's hours later. The sun is a red blistering up in your palm. Your back is strong, Young, not yet the broken wherein an abandoned school of dry spiders. Dust settles on your forehead, dirties under each fingernail. You chop, step, and by the end of the first row, You can buy one splendid fish for highland three sons. Another row, another fish, Until you have enough and move on to milk, Bread, meat. Ten hours and the cupboards creak. You can rest in the backyard under a tree. Your hands twitch on your lap, Not unlike the fish on a pier or the bottom a boat. You drink iced tea. The minutes warlike flies. 			It's dusk, now night, And the lights in your home are on. That costs money, yellow lighting the kitchen. That's thirty steps, You say to your hands, Now shaped into binoculars. You could raise them to your eyes:You were a fool in school, now look at you. You're a giant among cotton plants. Now you see your oldest boy, also running.Father, he says, it's time to come in. You pull him into your Lapland ask What's forty times nine? He knows as well as you, and you smile. The wind makes peace with the trees, The stars strike themselves in the dark. You get up and walk with the sigh of cotton plants. You go to sleep with a red sun on your palm, The sore light you see when you first stir in bed. 
 

 I come from haunts of coot and her, I make a sudden sally And sparkle out among the fern, To bicker down a valley. By thirty hills I hurry down, Or slip between the ridges, By twenty Thorpe, a little town, And half a hundred bridges. Till last by Philip's farm I flow To join the brimming river, For men may come and men may go, But I go on for ever. I chatter over stony ways, In little sharps and trebles, I bubble into eddying bays, I babble on the pebbles. With many a curve my banks I fret By many a field and fallow, And many a fairy forehand set With willow-weed and mallow. I chatter, chatter, as I flow To join the brimming river, For men may come and men may go, But I go on for ever. I wind about, and in and out, With here a blossom sailing, And here and there a lusty trout, And here and there a graying, And here and there a foamy flake Upon me, as I travel With many a silvery water break Above the golden gravel, And draw them all along, and flow To join the brimming river For men may come and men may go, But I go on for ever. I steal by lawns and grassy plots, I slide by hazel covers; I move the sweet forget-me-nots That grow for happy lovers. I slip, I slide, I gloom, I glance, Among my skimming swallows; I make the netted sunbeam dance Against my sandy shallows. I murmur under moon and stars In brambly wildernesses; I linger by my singly bars; I loiter round my crosses; And out again I curve and flow To join the brimming river, For men may come and men may go, But I go on for ever. 
 

 THE wild bee reels from bough to bough With his furry coat and his gauzy wing.  Now in a lily-cup, and now Setting a Jacinta bell a-swing, In his wandering; Sit closer love: it was here I trow I made that vow, Swore that two lives should be like one As long as the sea-gull loved the sea, As long as the sunflower sought the sun,-- It shall be, I said, for eternity 'Twixt you and me!  Dear friend, those times are over and done, Love's web is spun.  Look upward where the poplar trees Sway and sway in the summer air, Here in the valley never a breeze Scatters the thistledown, but there Great winds blow fair From the mighty murmuring mystical seas, And the wave-lashed leas.  Look upward where the white gull screams, What does it see that we do not see?  Is that a star? Or the lamp that gleams On some outward voyaging argosy,-- Ah! Can it be We have lived our lives in a land of dreams!  How sad it seems.  Sweet, there is nothing left to say But this, that love is never lost, Keen winter stabs the breasts of May Whose crimson roses burst his frost, Ships tempest-tossed Will find a harbor in some bay, And so we may.  And there is nothing left to do But to kiss once again, and part, Nay, there is nothing we should rue, I have my beauty, --you your Art, Nay, do not start, One world was not enough for two Like me and you. 
 

 'Twas mercy brought me from my Pagan land, Taught my benighted soul to understandThat there's a God, that there's a Savior too:Once I redemption neither sought nor knew. Some view our sable race with scornful eye,”Their color is a diabolic die.” Remember, Christians, Afro-American's, black as Cain, May be refit'd, and join TH' angelic train. 
 

 What lips my lips have kissed, and where, and why, I have forgotten, and what arms have lain Under my head till morning; but the rain Is full of ghosts tonight, that tap and sigh Upon the glass and listen for reply, And in my heart there stirs a quiet pain For unremembered lads that not again Will turn to me at midnight with a cry. Thus, in winter stands the lonely tree, Nor knows what birds have vanished one by one, Yet knows its boughs more silent than before: I cannot say what loves have come and gone, I only know that summer sang in me A little while, that in me sings no more. 
 

 I take my wine jug out among the flowers to drink alone, without friends. I raise my cup to entice the moon. That, and my shadow, makes us three. But the moon doesn't drink, and my shadow silently follows. I will travel with moon and shadow, happy to the end of spring. When I sing, the moon dances. When I dance, my shadow dances, too. We share life's joys when sober. Drunk, each goes a separate way. Constant friends, although we wander, we'll meet again in the Milky Way.  Li T'IPO try. Hamil. 
 

 I shot an arrow into the air, It fell to earth, I knew not where; For, so swiftly it flew, the eightfold not follow it in its flight. I breathed a song into the air, It fell to earth, I knew not where; For who has sight so keen and strong, That it can follow the flight of song? Long, long afterward, in an oak found the arrow, still unbroken; And the song, from beginning to end, I found again in the heart of a friend. 
 

 You have to be always drunk. That's all there is to it--it's the only way. So as not to feel the horrible burden of time that breaks your back and bends you to the earth, you have to be continually drunk. But on what? Wine, poetry or virtue, as you wish. But be drunk. And if sometimes, on the steps of a palace or the green grass of a ditch, in the mournful solitude of your room, you wake again, drunkenness already diminishing or gone, ask the wind, the wave, the star, the bird, the clock, everything that is flying, everything that is groaning, everything that is rolling, everything that is singing, everything that is speaking. . .ask what time it is and wind, wave, star, bird, clock will answer you:”It is time to be drunk! So as not to be the martyred slaves of time, be drunk, be continually drunk! On wine, on poetry or on virtue as you wish.” 
 

 A fond kiss, and then we sever;A farewell, and then forever! Deep in heart-wrung tears I'll pledge thee, Warring sighs and groans I'll wage thee. Who shall say that Fortune grieves him, While the star of hope she leaves him? Me, nae cheerful' twinkle lights me;Dark despair around be nights me. I'll né'er blame my partial fancy, Nothing could resist my Nancy;But to see her was to love her;Love but her, and love forever. Had we never love'd say kindly, Had we never love'd say blindly, Never met--or never parted--We had né'er been broken-hearted. Fare thee well, thou first and fairest! Fare thee well, thou best and dearest! Thine be like a joy and treasure, Peace. Enjoyment, love, and pleasure! A fond kiss, and then we sever;A farewell, alas, forever! Deep in heart-wrung tears I'll pledge thee, Warring sighs and groans I'll wage thee! 
 

 It lies not in our power to love or hate, For will in us is overruled by fate. When two are stripped, long ere the course begin, We wish that one should love, the other win;And one especially do we affected two gold ingots, like in each respect:The reason no man knows; let it sufficeWhat we behold is censured by our eyes. Where both deliberate, the love is slight:Who ever loved, that loved not at first sight? 
 

 A dream lies dead here. May you softly go Before this place, and turn away your eyes, Nor seek to know the look of that which dies Importuning Life for life. Walk not in woe, But, for a little, let your step be slow. And, of your mercy, be not sweetly wise With words of hope and Spring and tenderer skies. A dream lies dead; and this all mourners know: Whenever one drifted petal leaves the tree- Though white of bloom as it had been before And proudly faithful of fecundity- One little loveliness can be no more; And so must Beauty bow her imperfect head Because a dream has joined the wistful dead! 
 

 I always like summer Best you can eat fresh corn From father's garden And okra And greens And cabbage And lots of barbeques And buttermilk And homemade ice-cream At the church picnic And listen to Gospel music Outside At the church Homecoming And go to the mountains with Your grandmother And go barefooted And be warm All the time Not only when you go to bed And sleep 
 

 We will be what we could be. Do not say, “It might have been, had not this, or that, or this.” No fate can keep us from the chosen way; He only might who is. We will do what we could do. Do not dream Chance leaves a hero, all uncrowned to grieve. I hold, all men are greatly what they seem; He does, who could achieve. We will climb where we could climb. Tell me not Of adverse storms that kept thee from the height. What eagle ever missed the peak he sought? He always climbs who might. I do not like the phrase “It might have been!” It lacks force, and life's best truths perverts: For I believe we have, and reach, and win, Whatever our deserts. 
 

 Come live with me and be my love, And we will all the pleasures Promethean valleys, groves, hills, and fields, Woods, or steep mountain yields. And we will sit upon rocks, Seeing the shepherds feed their flocks, By shallow rivers to whose fallsMelodious birds sing madrigals. And I will make the beds of Roseland a thousand fragrant poises, A cap of flowers, and a kirtleEmbroidered all with leaves of myrtle; A gown made of the finest Woolworth from our pretty lambs we pull; Fair lined slippers for the cold, With buckles of the purest gold; A belt of straw and ivy buds, With coral clasps and amber studs; And if these pleasures may the move, Come live with me, and be my love. The shepherd's swains shall dance and singer thy delight each May morning:If these delights thy mind may move, Then live with me and be my love. 
 

 LOVE — what is love?  A great and aching heart;Wrung hands; and silence; and a long despair. Life — what is life?  Upon a moorland Bart see love coming and see love depart. 
 

 There is a place where the sidewalk end sand before the street begins, and there the grass grows soft and white, and there the sun burns crimson bright, and there the moon-bird rests from his flight to cool in the peppermint wind. Let us leave this place where the smoke blows black and the dark street winds and bends. Past the pits where the asphalt flowers grow we shall walk with a walk that is measured and slow and watch where the chalk-white arrows got the place where the sidewalk ends. Yes we'll walk with a walk that is measured and slow, and we'll go where the chalk-white arrows go, for the children, they mark, and the children, they know, the place where the sidewalk ends. 
 

 HALF a league, half a league, Half a league onward, All in the valley of Death Rode the six hundred. 'Forward, the Light Brigade! Charge for the guns! ' He said: Into the valley of Death Rode the six hundred. 'Forward, the Light Brigade! ' Was there a man dismay'd? Not tho' the soldier knew Someone had blundered'd: Theirs not to make reply, Theirs not to reason why, Theirs but to do and die: Into the valley of Death Rode the six hundred. Cannon to right of them, Cannon to left of them, Cannon in front of them Volley'd and thunder'd; Storm'd at with shot and shell, Boldly they rode and well, Into the jaws of Death, Into the mouth of Hell Rode the six hundred. Flash'd all their sabers bare, Flash'd as they turn'd in air Sebring the gunners there, Charging an army, while All the world wonder'd: Plunged in the battery-smoke Right tho' the line they broke; Cossack and Russian Reel'd from the sabre-stroke Shatter'd and sunder'd. Then they rode back, but not       Not the six hundred. Cannon to right of them, Cannon to left of them, Cannon behind them Volley'd and thunder'd; Storm'd at with shot and shell, While horse and hero fell, They that had fought so well Came tho' the jaws of Death, Back from the mouth of Hell, All that was left of them, Left of six hundred. When can their glory fade? O the wild charge they made!  All the world wonder'd. Honor the charge they made! Honor the Light Brigade, Noble six hundred! . 
 

 PERCHANCE he for whom this bell tolls may be so ill, as that he knows not it tolls for him; and perchance I may think myself so much better than I am, as that they who are about me, and see my state, may have caused it to toll for me, and I know not that.  The church is Catholic, universal, so are all her actions; all that she does belongs to all.  When she baptizes a child, that action concerns me; for that child is thereby connected to that body which is my head too, and in grafted into that body whereof I am a member.  And when she buries a man, that action concerns me: all mankind is of one author, and is one volume; when one man dies, one chapter is not torn out of the book, but translated into a better language; and every chapter must be so translated; God employs several translators; some pieces are translated by age, some by sickness, some by war, some by justice; but God's hand is in every translation, and his hand shall bind up all our scattered leaves again for that library where every book shall lie open to one another.  As therefore the bell that rings to a sermon calls not upon the preacher only, but upon the congregation to come, so this bell calls us all; but how much more me, who am brought so near the door by this sickness.  There was a contention as far as a suit (in which both piety and dignity, religion and estimation, were mingled), which of the religious orders should ring to prayers first in the morning; and it was determined, that they should ring first that rose earliest.  If we understand aright the dignity of this bell that tolls for our evening prayer, we would be glad to make it ours by rising early, in that application, that it might be ours as well as his, whose indeed it is.  The bell doth toll for him that thinks it doth; and though it intermits again, yet from that minute that this occasion wrought upon him, he is united to God.  Who casts not up his eye to the sun when it rises? But who takes off his eye from a comet when that breaks out?  Who bends not his ear to any bell which upon any occasion rings? But who can remove it from that bell which is passing a piece of himself out of this world?  No man is an island, entire of itself; every man is a piece of the continent, a part of the main.  If a clod be washed away by the sea, Europe is the less, as well as if a promontory were, as well as if a manor of thy friend's or of thine own were: any man's death diminishes me, because I am involved in mankind, and therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls; it tolls for thee.  Neither can we call this a begging of misery, or a borrowing of misery, as though we were not miserable enough of ourselves, but must fetch in more from the next house, in taking upon us the misery of our neighbors.  Truly it were an excusable covetousness if we did, for affliction is a treasure, and scarce any man hath enough of it.  No man hath affliction enough that is not matured and ripened by it, and made fit for God by that affliction.  If a man carry treasure in bullion, or in a wedge of gold, and have none coined into current money, his treasure will not defray him as he travels.  Tribulation is treasure in the nature of it, but it is not current money in the use of it, except we get nearer and nearer our home, heaven, by it.  Another man may be sick too, and sick to death, and this affliction may lie in his bowels, as gold in a mine, and be of no use to him; but this bell, that tells me of his affliction, digs out and applies that gold to me: if by this consideration of another's danger I take mine own into contemplation, and so secure myself, by making my recourse to my God, who is our only security. 
 

 My eyes already touch the sunny hill.going far ahead of the road I have begun. So we are grasped by what we cannot grasp;it has inner light, even from a distance-and charges us, even if we do not reach it, into something else, which, hardly sensing it, we already are; a gesture waves us on answering our own wave...but what we feel is the wind in our faces. Translated by Robert Bly. 
 

 They leave their homes Unwillingly forced And follow their fate Through fields and trails Massifs and woods With all their goods Love and hate Mores and tales All in bales Carrying their own Flesh and bones Feet like stones Their bodies and souls Kids and crones Torn by storms, Rains and gales Attacked by guns, Helps and drones No role to play In games of peace And deadly war Not a word they say But a question, Why? What for? While we babysitting at casein our climes They leave their homes And reside in camps Strive for a living Internally displaced and dead Beg for a drop of water And a piece of bread! (May 12, 2009) (*) Internally Displaced Persons (IDs) is a neoteric terminology used in reference to those people who adopt refuge in their own countries due to any life threatening disturbance like fight between the extremists and security agencies or fight between the local militant groups that results in catastrophic changes in their lives, and they leave their homes due to anarchy in their respective area. (NAN) 
 

 I have fallen from sky, Fallen to the ground, I am the angel of sadness, Angel of lost hopes, Angel of lost dreams, I am the fallen angel, Fear me not, I am here for reason, That reason is to have a second chance in life, That life I was given for a reason, They took my wings, They took me apart made me human, I was the fallen angel, But that fallen angel had one chance in life that she was given, This angel won’t make the same mistakes she made before, This angel will go down the right path that has been chosen for her, This fallen angel know what she has to do to be forgiven. 
 

 In my dream, drilling into the marrow of my entire bone, my real dream, I'm walking up and down Beacon Hill searching for a street sign — namely MERCY STREET. Not there. I try the Back Bay. Not there. Not there. And yet I know the number. 45 Mercy Street. I know the stained-glass window of the foyer, the three flights of the house with its parquet floors. I know the furniture and mother, grandmother, great-grandmother, the servants. I know the cupboard of Spoke the boat of ice, solid silver, where the butter sits in neat squares like strange giant's teeth on the big mahogany table. I know it well. Not there. Where did you go? 45 Mercy Street, with great-grandmother kneeling in her whale-bone corset and praying gently but fiercely to the wash basin, at five A.M. at noon dozing in her Ziggy rocker, grandfather taking a nap in the pantry, grandmother pushing the bell for the downstairs maid, and Nana rocking Mother with an oversized flower on her forehead to cover the curl of when she was good and when she was... And where she was begot and in a generation the third she will beget, me, with the stranger's seed blooming into the flower called Horrid. I walk in a yellow dress and a white pocketbook stuffed with cigarettes, enough pills, my wallet, my keys, and being twenty-eight, or is it forty-five? I walk. I walk. I hold matches at street signs for it is dark, as dark as the leathery dead and I have lost my green Ford, my house in the suburbs, two little kids sucked up like pollen by the bee in me and a husband who has wiped off his eyes in order not to see my inside out, and I am walking and looking and this is no dream just my oily life where the people are alibis and the street is unfindable for an entire lifetime. Pull the shades down — I don't care! Bolt the door, mercy, erase the number, rip down the street sign, what can it matter, what can it matter to this cheapskate who wants to own the past that went out on a dead ship and left me only with paper? Not there. I open my pocketbook, as women do, and fish swim back and forth between the dollars and the lipstick. I pick them out, one by one and throw them at the street signs, and shoot my pocketbook into the Charles River. Next I pull the dream off and slam into the cement wall of the clumsy calendar I live in, my life, and it's hauled up notebooks. 
 

 You did not come, And marching Time drew on, and wore me numb. Yet less for loss of your dear presence heathen that I thus found lacking in your Martha high compassion which can overbearReluctance for pure loving kindness' aggrieved I, when, as the hope-hour stroked its sum, You did not come. You love not me, And love alone can lend you loyalty;-I know and knew it. But, unto the store human deeds divine in all but name, Was it not worth a little hour or Moreno add yet this: Once you, a woman, cameo soothe a time-torn man; even though it bayou love not me. 
 

 Love is... Love is feeling cold in the back of vans Love is a fan club with only two fans Love is walking holding paint stained hands Love is. Love is fish and chips on winter nights Love is blankets full of strange delights Love is when you don't put out the light Love is Love is the presents in Christmas shops Love is when you're feeling Top of the Pops Love is what happens when the music stops Love is Love is white panties lying all forlorn Love is pink nightdresses still slightly warm Love is when you have to leave at dawn Love is Love is you and love is me Love is prison and love is free Love's what's there when you are away from me Love is... 
 

 I was hoping to be happy by seventeen. School was a sharp check mark in the roll book, An obnoxious tuba playing at noon because our teams going to win at night. The teachers Weirton close to dying to understand. The hallwaysStank of poor grades and unwashed hair. Thus, A friend and I sat watching the water on Saturday, Neither of us talking much, just warming ourselves hurling large rocks at the dusty grounded feeling awful because San Francisco was a postcards a bedroom wall. We wanted to go there, Hitchhike under the last migrating birdsong be with people who knew more than three chords a guitar. We didn't drink or smoke, But our hair was shoulder-length, wild whether wind picked up and the shadows this loneliness gripped loose dirt. By bus or car, By the sway of train over a long bridge, We wanted to get out. The years froze As we sat on the bank. Our eyes followed the water, White-tipped but dark underneath, racing out of town. 
 

 These hips are big hips.they need space to move around in.they don't fit into little petty places. These hips are free hips.they don't like to be held back.these hips have never been enslaved, they go where they want to go they do what they want to do. these hips are mighty hips.these hips are magic hips.I have known them to put a spell on a man and spin him like a top. 
 

 What thoughts I have of you tonight, Walt Whitman, for I walked down the streets under the trees with a headache self-conscious looking at the full moon. In my hungry fatigue, and shopping for images, I went into the neon fruit supermarket, dreaming of your enumerations! What peaches and what penumbras! Whole families shopping at night! Aisles full of husbands! Wives in the avocados, babies in the tomatoes! --- and you, Garcia Lorna, what were you doing down by the watermelons? I saw you, Walt Whitman, childless, lonely old grubber, poking among the meats in the refrigerator and eyeing the grocery boys. I heard you asking questions of each: Who killed the pork chops? What price bananas? Are you my Angel? I wandered in and out of the brilliant stacks of cans following you, and followed in my imagination by the store detective. We strode down the open corridors together in our solitary fancy tasting artichokes, possessing every frozen delicacy, and never passing the cashier. Where are we going, Walt Whitman? The doors close in an hour. Which way does your beard point tonight?(I touch your book and dream of our odyssey in the supermarket and feel absurd.) Will we walk all night through solitary streets? The trees add shade to shade, lights out in the houses, we'll both be lonely. Will we stroll dreaming of the lost America of love past blue automobiles in driveways, home to our silent cottage? Ah, dear father, graybeard, lonely old courage-teacher, what America did you have when Charon quit poling his ferry and you got out on a smoking bank and stood watching the boat disappear on the black waters of Lethe? 
 

 I do not think of you lying in the wet playoff a Jonathan graveyard; I you walking down a lane among the poplars your way to the station, or happilyGoing to second Mass on a summer Sunday -You meet me and you say:'Don't forget to see about the cattle — 'Among your earthiest words the angels stray. And I think of you walking along a headland green oats in June, So full of repose, so rich with life -And I see us meeting at the end of a Towson a fair day by accident, after bargains are all made, and we can altogether through the shops and stalls and MarketSense in the oriental streets of thought. O you are not lying in the wet clay, For it is a harvest evening now and were piling up the ricks against the moonlighting you smile up at us — eternally. 
 

 In life one is alwaysbalancinglike we juggle our mothers against our fathers or one teacher against another(only to balance our grade average) 3 grains of salt to one ounce truth our sweet black essence or the funky honkies down the street and lately I've begun wondering if you're trying to tell me something we used to talk all night and do things alone together and I've begun(as a reaction to a feeling) to balance the pleasure of loneliness against the pain of loving you 
 

 She walks in Beauty, like the night cloudless climes and starry skies;And all that's best of dark and brightest in her aspect and her eyes:Thus mellowed to that tender lightweight Heaven to gaudy day denies. One shade the more, one ray the less, Had half impaired the nameless graceWhich waves in every raven tress, Or softly lightens o'er her face;Where thoughts serenely sweet express, How pure, how dear their dwelling-place. And on that cheek, and o'er that brow, So soft, so calm, yet eloquent, The smiles that win, the tints that glow, But tell of days in goodness spent, A mind at peace with all below, A heart whose love is innocent! 
 

 Down behind the dustbin met a dog called Ted.‘Leave me alone,’ he says, ‘I’m just going to bed.’ Down behind the dustbin met a dog called Roger.‘Do you own this bin?’ I said.‘No. I’m only a lodger.’ Down behind the dustbin met a dog called Sue.‘What are you doing here?’ I said.‘I’ve got nothing else to do.’ 
 

The text of this poem could not be published because of Copyright laws.


 The sun has burst the because I love found the river its banks. The sea laps the great rocksBecause I love found takes no heed of the moon dragging it away saying coldly 'Constancy is not for you'. The blackbird fills the because I love youth spring and lawns and shadows falling on lawns. The people walk in the street and laugh love found far down the river ships sound their hootersCrazy with joy because I love you. 
 

 I Found you and I lost you, All on a gleaming day. The day was filled with sunshine, And the land was full of May. A golden bird was singing Its melody divine, I found you and I loved you, And all the world was mine. I found you and I lost you, All on a golden day, But when I dream of you, dear, It is always brimming May. 
 

 Once there was a tree....and she loved a little boy. And every day the boy would command he would gather her leave sand make them into crown sand play king of the forest. He would climb up her trunk and swing from her branches and eat apples. And they would play hide-and-go-seek. And when he was tired, he would sleep in her shade. And the boy loved the tree....very much. And the tree was happy. But time went by. And the boy grew older. And the tree was often alone. Then one day the boy came to the tree and the tree said, 'Come, Boy, come and climb up my trunk and swing from my branches and eat apples and play in my shade and be happy.'' I am too big to climb and play' said the boy.' I want to buy things and have fun. I want some money?'' I'm sorry,' said the tree, 'but Have no money. I have only leaves and apples. Take my apples, Boy, and sell them in the city. Then you will have money and you will be happy.' And so the boy climbed up the tree and gathered her apple sand carried them away. And the tree was happy. But the boy stayed away for a long time....and the tree was sad. And then one day the boy came backhand the tree shook with joy and she said, 'Come, Boy, climb up my trunk and swing from my branches and be happy.'' I am too busy to climb trees,' said the boy.' I want a house to keep me warm,' he said.' I want a wife and I want children, and so I need a house. Can you give me a house ?' ' I have no house,' said the tree.' The forest is my house, but you may cut off my branches and build a house. Then you will be happy.' And so the boy cut off her branches and carried them away to build his house. And the tree was happy. But the boy stayed away for a long time. And when he came back, the tree was so happy she could hardly speak.' Come, Boy,' she whispered,'come and play.'' I am too old and sad to play,'said the boy.' I want a boat that will take me far away from here. Can you give me a boat?'' Cut down my trunk and make a boat,' said the tree.' Then you can sail away...and be happy.' And so the boy cut down her trunk and made a boat and sailed away. And the tree was happy... but not really. And after a long time the boy came back again.' I am sorry, Boy,'said the tree,' but I have nothing left to give you -My apples are gone.'' My teeth are too weak for apples,' said the boy.' My branches are gone,'said the tree. ' You cannot swing on them — ''I am too old to swing on branches,' said the boy.' My trunk is gone, said the tree.' You cannot climb — ''I am too tired to climb' said the boy.' I am sorry,' sighed the tree.' I wish that I could give you something....but I have nothing left. I am just an old stump. I am sorry....'' I don't need very much now,' said the boy.'just a quiet place to sit and rest. I am very tired.'' Well,' said the tree, straightening herself up as much as she could,'well, an old stump is good for sitting and restingCome, Boy, sit down. Sit down and rest.' And the boy did. And the tree was happy. 
 

 <i>Translated into English in 1859 by Edward Fitzgerald</i>I. Awake! For Morning in the Bowl of Nights flung the Stone that puts the Stars to Flight:And Lo! The Hunter of the East has caught Sultan's Turret in a Noose of Light. II. Dreaming when Dawn's Left Hand was in the Sky heard a voice within the Tavern cry,'Awake, my Little ones, and fill the Before Life's Liquor in its Cup be dry.' III. And, as the Cock crew, those who stood before Tavern shouted — 'Open then the Door! You know how little while we have to stay, And, once departed, may return no more.' IV. Now the New Year reviving old Desires, The thoughtful Soul to Solitude retires, Where the White Hand of Moses on the Doughnuts out, and Jesus from the Ground auspices. V. Iram indeed is gone with all its Rose, And Washed's SEV'n-ring'd Cup where no one Knows; But still the Vine her ancient ruby yields, And still a Garden by the Water blows. VI. And David's Lips are lock't; but in divineHigh piping Pahlavi, with 'Wine! Wine! Wine! Red Wine! ' — the Nightingale cries to the Rosetta yellow Cheek of hers to incarnadine. VII. Come, fill the Cup, and in the Fire of Springtime Winter Garment of Repentance fling:The Bird of Time has but a little Waymo fly — and Lo! The Bird is on the Wing. VIII. Whether at Naishapur or Babylon, Whether the Cup with sweet or bitter run, The Wine of Life keeps oozing drop by drop, The Leaves of Life keep falling one by one. IX. Morning a thousand Roses brings, you say; Yes, but where leaves the Rose of Yesterday? And this first Summer month that brings the RoseS hall take Washed and Kairouan away. X. But come with old Khayyam, and leave the LOOF Kairouan and Kaikhosru forgot:Let Frustum lay about him as he will, Or Hakim Tai cry Supper — heed them not. XI. With me along the strip of Herbage strownThat just divides the desert from the sown, Where name of Slave and Sultan is forgotten — And Peace is Mahmoud on his Golden Throne! XII. A Book of Verses underneath the Bough, A Jug of Wine, a Loaf of Bread, — and Shoreside me singing in the Wilderness — Oh, Wilderness were Paradise now! XIII. Some for the Glories of This World; and sometime for the Prophet's Paradise to come; Ah, take the Cash, and let the Promise go, Nor heed the rumble of a distant Drum! XIV. Were it not Folly, Spider-like to spite Thread of present Life away to win — What? For ourselves, who know not if we shallBreathe out the very Breath we now breathe in! XV. Look to the Rose that blows about us — 'Lo, Laughing,' she says, 'into the World I blow:At once the silken Tassel of my Persevere, and its Treasure on the Garden throw.' XVI. The Worldly Hope men set their Hearts upturns Ashes — or it prospers; and anon, Like Snow upon the Desert's dusty Backlighting a little Hour or two — is gone. XVII. And those who husbanded the Golden Grain, And those who flung it to the Winds like Rain, Alike to no such laureate Earth are turn'was, buried once, Men want dug up again. XVIII. Think, in this batter'd CaravanseraiWhose Doorways are alternate Night and Day, How Sultan after Sultan with his Pompadour his Hour or two and went his way. XIX. They say the Lion and the Lizard seethe Courts where Washed gloried and drank deep:And Bahrām, that great Hunter — the Wild Stamps o'er his Head, but cannot break his Sleep. XX. I sometimes think that never blows so reduce Rose as where some buried Caesar bled; That every Hyacinth the Garden teardrop in its Lap from some once lovely Head. XXI. And this delightful Herb whose tender Greensleeves the River's Lip on which we lean — Ah, lean upon it lightly! For who snowstorm what once lovely Lip it springs unseen! XXII. Ah, my Beloved, fills the Cup that clerestory of past Regrets and future Fears — To-morrow? — Why, To-morrow I may myself with Yesterday's SEV'n Thousand Years. XXIII. Lo! Some we loved, the loveliest and Bertha Time and Fate of all their Vintage rest, Have drunk their Cup a Round or two before, And one by one crept silently to Rest. XXIV. And we, that now make merry in the Rooted left, and Summer dresses in new Bloom, Ourselves must we beneath the Couch of EarthDescend, ourselves to make a Couch — for whom? XXV. Ah, make the most of what we may yet spend, Before we too into the Dust descend; Dust into Dust, and under Dust, to lie; Sans Wine, sans Song, sans Singer, and — sans End! XXVI. Alike for those who for To-day prepare, And those that after some To-morrow stare, A Muezzin from the Tower of Darkness cries'Fools! Your Reward is neither Here nor There! ' XXVII. Why, all the Saints and Sages who discuss'DOF the Two Worlds so learnedly, are Christlike foolish Prophets forth; their Works to Scorner scatter'd, and their Mouths are stop with Dust. XXVIII. Oh, come with old Khayyam, and leave the Wise talk; one thing is certain, that Life flies; One thing is certain, and the Rest is Lies; The Flower that once has blown forever dies. XXIX. Myself when young did eagerly frequent Doctor and Saint, and heard great ArgumentAbout it and about; but evermoreCame out by the same Door as in I went. XXX. With them the Seed of Wisdom did I sow, And with my own hand labor'd it to grow:And this was all the Harvest that I reap'd — 'I came like Water and like Wind I go.' XXXI. Into this Universe, and Why not knowing, Nor Whence, like Water willy-nilly flowing:And out of it, as Wind along the Waste, I know not Whither, willy-nilly blowing. XXXII. Up from Earth's Center through the Seventh Gate rose, and on the Throne of Saturn sate, And many Knots unravel'd by the Road; But not the Master-Knot of Human Fate. XXXIII. There was the Door to which I found no Key:There was the Veil through which I could not see:Some little talk awhile of Me and Cheetham was — and then no more of Thee and Me. XXXIV. Then to the rolling Head'n itself I cried, Asking, 'What Lamp had Destiny to guider little Children stumbling in the Dark? 'And — 'A blind Understanding! ' Head'n replied. XXXV. Then to the Lip of this poor earthen Urn lean'd, the secret Well of Life to learn:And Lip to Lip it murmur'd — 'While you live, Drink! — for, once dead, you never shall return.' XXXVI. I think the Vessel, that with fugitiveArticulation answer'd, once did live, And merry-make, and the cold Lip I kiss'd, How many Kisses might it take — and give! XXXVII. For in the Market-place, one Dusk of Day, I watch'd the Potter thumping his wet Clay:And with its all obliterated Tongue It murmur'd — 'Gently, Brother, gently, pray! ' XXXVIII. And has not such a Story from of Down Man's successive generations roll'DOF such a clod of saturated Earthiest by the Maker into Human mold? XXXIX. Ah, fill the Cup: — what boots it to repeated Time is slipping underneath our Feet:Unborn To-morrow, and dead Yesterday, Why fret about them if To-day be sweet! XL. A Moment's Halt — a momentary taste Being from the Well amid the Waste — And Lo! The phantom Caravan has reach'the Nothing it set out from — Oh, make haste! CLI. Oh, plagued no more with Human or Divine, To-morrow's tangle to itself resign, And lose your fingers in the tresses the Cypress-slender Minister of Wine. Clii. Waste not your Hour, nor in the vain pursuit This and That endeavor and dispute; Better be merry with the fruitful Grapeshot sadden after none, or bitter, fruit. Xiii. You know, my Friends, with what a brave Carousel made a Second Marriage in my house; Divorced old barren Reason from my Bed, And took the Daughter of the Vine to Spouse. Xciv. And lately, by the Tavern Door agape, Came stealing through the Dusk an Angel ShapeBearing a Vessel on his Shoulder; Andre bid me taste of it; and 'twas — the Grape! ALV. The Grape that can with Logic absolute Two-and-Seventy jarring Sects confute:The subtle Alchemist that in a Priceline's leaden Metal into Gold transmute. Clvi. Why, be this Juice the growth of God, who dareBlaspheme the twisted tendril as Snare? A Blessing, we should use it, should we not? And if a Curse — why, then, Who set it there? Clvii. But leave the Wise to wrangle, and with Bethe Quarrel of the Universe let be:And, in some corner of the Hubbub couch'd, Make Game of that which makes as much of Thee. Xviii. For in and out, above, about, below,'Ti's nothing but a Magic Shadow-show, Play'd in a Box whose Candle is the Sun, Round which we Phantom Figures come and go. LIX. Strange, is it not? That of the myriads wherefore us pass'd the door of Darkness throughout one returns to tell us of the Road, Which to discover we must travel too. L. The Revelations of Devout and Learn'who rose before us, and as Prophets burn'd, Are all but Stories, which, awoke from Sleep, They told their fellows, and to Sleep return'd. LI. Why, if the Soul can fling the Dust aside, And naked on the Air of Heaven ride,Isn't not a shame — Isn't not a shame for hims long in this Clay suburb to abide? LII. But that is but a Tent wherein may rest Sultan to the realm of Death address; The Sultan rises, and the dark FerrashStrikes, and prepares it for another guest. Iii. I sent my Soul through the Invisible, Some letter of that After-life to spell:And after many days my Soul return'and said, 'Behold, Myself am Head'n and Hell.' LIV. Heav'n but the Vision of fulfill'd Desire, And Hell the Shadow of a Soul on fire, Cast on the Darkness into which Ourselves, So late emerge'd from, shall so soon expire. LV. While the Rose blows along the River Brink, With old Khayyam and ruby vintage drink:And when the Angel with his darker DraughtDraws up to Thee — take that, and do not shrink. LVI. And fear not lest Existence closing yourAccount, should lose, or know the type no more; The Eternal Saki from the Bowl has poured'millions of Bubble like us, and will pour. LVII. When You and I behind the Veil are past, Oh but the long while the World shall last, Which of our Coming and Departure heeds As much as Ocean of a pebble-cast. Lvii.'This all a Checkerboard of Nights and Anywhere Destiny with Men for Pieces plays:Hither and thither moves, and mates, and slays, And one by one back in the Closet lays. LIX. The Ball no Question makes of Ayes and Noes, But Right or Left, as strikes the Player goes; And he that toss'd Thee down into the Field, He knows about it all — He knows — HE knows! LX. The Moving Finger writes; and, having writ, Moves on: nor all thy Piety nor WitS hall lure it back to cancel half a Line, Nor all thy Tears wash out a Word of it. LXI. For let Philosopher and Doctor preach what they will, and what they will not — each but one Link in an eternal Chainsaw none can slip, nor break, nor over-reach. LXII. And that inverted Bowl we call The Sky, Whereunder crawling coop't we live and die, Lift not thy hands to it for help — for Trolls impotently on as Thou or I. Lxii. With Earth's first Clay They did the Last Man knead, And then of the Last Harvest sow'd the Seed:Yea, the first Morning of Creation somewhat the Last Dawn of Reckoning shall read. LXIV. Yesterday This Day's Madness did prepare; To-morrow's Silence, Triumph, or Despair:Drink! For you know not whence you came, nor why:Drink! For you know not why you go, nor where. AXV. I tell You this — When, starting from the Goal, Over the shoulders of the flaming Follow Head'n Darwin and Mustard they flung, In my predestine'd Plot of Dust and Soul. LXVI. The Vine has struck a fiber: which about clings my Being — let the Dervish flout; Of my Base metal may be filed a Key, That shall unlock the Door he howls without. LXVII. And this I know: whether the one True Light, Kindle to Love, or Wrath — consume me quite, One Glimpse of It within the Tavern caughtBetter than in the Temple lost outright. Lxvii. What! Out of senseless Nothing to provoked conscious Something to resent the Yoko permitted Pleasure, under piano Everlasting Penalties, if broke! LXIX. What! From his helpless Creature be repaidPure Gold for what he lent us dross-allay'd — Sue for a Debt we never did contract, And cannot answer — Oh the sorry trade! Lax. Nay, but for terror of his wrathful Face, I swear I will not call Injustice Grace; Not one Good Fellow of the Tavern would kick so poor a Coward from the place. Lxi. Oh Thou, who didst with pitfall and with finest the Road I was to wander in, Thou will not with Predestine'd Evil roundness me, and impute my Fall to Sin? Lxii. Oh, Thou, who Man of baser Earth didst make, And who with Eden didst devise the Snake; For all the Sin wherewith the Face of Mani blacken'd, Man's Forgiveness give — and take! Xxiii. Listen again. One Evening at the Close Ramadan, ere the better Moon arose, In that old Potter's Shop I stood aloneWith the clay Population round in Rows. Lxiv. And, strange to tell, among that Earthen Loathsome could articulate, while others not:And suddenly one more impatient cried — 'Who is the Potter, pray, and who the Pot? ' Lxiv. Then said another — 'Surely not in vainly Substance from the common Earth was ta'en, That He who subtly wrought me into ShapeShould stamp me back to common Earth again.' Lxvi. Another said — 'Why, né'er a peevish Boy, Would break the Bowl from which he drank in Joy; Shall He that made the vessel in pure Loveland Fancy, in an after Rage destroy? ' Lxvii. None answer'd this; but after Silence spake Vessel of a more ungainly Make:'They sneer at me for leaning all awry; What! Did the Hand then of the Potter shake? ' Xxviii:'Why,' said another, 'Some there are who tells one who threatens he will toss to Health luckless Pots he marred in making — Fish! He's a Good Fellow, and 'twill all be well.' Lxix. Then said another with a long-drawn Sigh,'My Clay with long oblivion is gone dry:But, fill me with the old familiar Juice, Methinks I might recover by-and-by! ' XXX. So while the Vessels one by one were speaking, The Little Moon look'd in that all were seeking:And then they jog'd each other, 'Brother! Brother! Now for the Porter's shoulder-knot a-creaking! ' Xxxi. Ah, with the Grape my fading Life provide, And wash my Body whence the Life has died, And in a Winding sheet of Vine-leaf wrap, So bury me by some sweet Garden-side. Xxxii. That eV'n my buried Ashes such a Snarf Perfume shall fling up into the Air, As not a True Believer passing but shall be overtaken unaware. Xxxiii.Indeed, the Idols I have loved so longhand done my Credit in Men's Eye much wrong:Have drowned'd my Honor in a shallow Cup, And sold my Reputation for a Song. Xxxiv. Indeed, indeed, Repentance oft before swore — but was I sober when I swore? And then, and then came Spring, and Rose-in-handMy thread-bare Penitence apiece store. Xxxv. And much as Wine has play'd the Infidel, And Rob'd me of my Robe of Honor — well, I often wonder what the Vintners beyond half so precious as the Goods they sell. Xxxvi. Alas, that Spring should vanish with the Rose! That Youth's sweet-scented Manuscript should close! The Nightingale that in the Branches sang, Ah, whence, and whither flown again, who knows! Xxxvii. Would but the Desert of the Fountain yielding glimpse — If dimly, yet indeed, reveal'to which the fainting Traveler might spring, As springs the trampled herbage of the field! Xxxviii. Ah Love! Could thou and I with Fate conspired grasp this sorry Scheme of Things entire, Would not we shatter it to bits — and thenRe-mould it nearer to the Heart's Desire! Xxxix. Ah, Moon of my Delight who know'st no wane, The Moon of Head'n is rising once again:How oft hereafter rising shall she breakthrough this same Garden after me — in vain! BC. And when like her, oh Saki, you shall passing the Guests star-scatter'd on the Grass, And in your joyous errand reach the SpotHero I made one — turn down an empty Glass! TA MAM SHUD. 
 

 What is it to grow old? Is it to lose the glory of the form, The luster of the eye? Is it for beauty to forego her wreath? Yes, but not for this alone. Is it to feel our strength -Not our bloom only, but our strength -decay? Is it to feel each limbo stiffer, every function less exact, Each nerve more weakly strung? Yes, this, and more! But not, Ah, 'TIS not what in youth we dreamed 'would be!'This not to have our lifeMellowed and softened as with sunset-glow, A golden day's decline!'This not to see the worlds from a height, with rapt prophetic eyes, And heart profoundly stirred;And weep, and feel the fullness of the past, The years that are no more! It is to spend long Dayan not once feel that we were ever young. It is to add, immured In the hot prison of the present, months month with weary pain. It is to suffer this, And feel but half, and feebly, what we feel:Deep in our hidden harvesters the dull remembrance of a change, But no emotion -none. It is -last stage of all -When we are frozen up within, and quite phantom of ourselves, To hear the world applaud the hollow ghostwrite blamed the living man. 
 

 I said to Love, “It is not now as in old days When men adored thee and thy ways All else above; Named thee the Boy, the Bright, the One Who spread a heaven beneath the sun,” I said to Love.  I said to him, “We now know more of thee than then; We were but weak in judgment when, With hearts Abram, We clamored thee that thou would'st please Inflict on us thine agonies,” I said to him.  I said to Love, “Thou art not young, thou art not fair, No fairy darts, no cherub air, Nor swan, nor dove Are thine; but features pitiless, And iron daggers of distress,” I said to Love.  “Depart then, Love! . . . — Man's race shall end, dost threaten thou? The age to come the man of now Know nothing of? — We fear not such a threat from thee; We are too old in apathy! Mankind shall cease.--So let it be,” I said to Love. 
 

 Three times I had the lust to kill, To clutch a throat so young and fair, And squeeze with all my might until No breath of being lingered there. Three times I drove the demon out, Though on my brow was evil sweat. . . .And, yet I know beyond a doubt He'll get me yet, he'll get me yet. I know I'm mad, I ought to telltale doctors, let them care for me, Confine me in a padded Welland never, never set me free;But Oh how cruel that would be! For I am young — and comely too. . . Yet dim my demon I can see, And there is but one thing to do. Three times I beat the foul fiend back;The fourth, I know he will prevail,And, so I'll seek the railway tracked lay my head upon the rail, And sight the dark and distant train, And hear its thunder louder roll, Coming to crush my cursed brain. . . Oh God, have mercy on my soul! 
 

 Broad sun-stoned beaches. White heat. A green river. A bridge, scorched yellow palms from the summer-sleeping house drowsing through August. Days I have held, days I have lost, days that outgrow, like daughters, my harboring arms. 
 

 Civil thou must love me, let it be for noughtExcept for love's sake only. Do not say'I love her for her smile—her look—her way speaking gently, —for a trick of thoughtThat falls in well with mine, and certs brought sense of pleasant ease on such a day'—For these things in themselves, Beloved, maybe changed, or change for thee, —and love, so wrought, May be wrought so. Neither love me fortune own dear pity's wiping my cheeks dry, —A creature might forget to weep, who worthy comfort long, and lose thy love thereby! But love me for love's sake, that evermoreThou mayst love on, through love's eternity. 
 

 How do you like to go up in a swing, Up in the air so blue? Oh, I do think it the pleasantest thing Ever a child can do! Up in the air and over the wall, Till I can see so wide, River and trees and cattle and all Over the countryside-- Till I look down on the garden green, Down on the roof so brown-- Up in the air I go flying again, Up in the air and down! 
 

 How can I keep my soul in me, so that it doesn't touch your soul? How can I raise it high enough, past you, to other things? I would like to shelter it, among remote lost objects, in some dark and silent place that doesn't resonate when your depths resound. Yet everything that touches us, me and you, takes us together like a violin's bow, which draws *one* voice out of two separate strings. Upon what instrument are we two spanned? And what musician holds us in his hand?Oh, the sweetest song. 
 

 If you don't know the kind of person I Amanda I don't know the kind of person you area pattern that others made may prevail in the world and following the wrong god home we may miss our star. For there is many a small betrayal in the mind, a shrug that lets the fragile sequence break sending with shouts the horrible errors of childhood storming out to play through the broken dyke. And as elephants parade holding each elephant's tail, but if one wanders the circus won't find the park, I call it cruel and maybe the root of all cruelty to know what occurs but not recognize the fact.And, so I appeal to a voice, to something shadowy, a remote important region in all who talk:though we could fool each other, we should consider--lest the parade of our mutual life get lost in the dark. For it is important that awake people be awake, or a breaking line may discourage them back to sleep;the signals we give--yes or no, or maybe--should be clear: the surrounding darkness is deep. 
 

 I think that I shall never know I am thus, and I am so. Around me, other girls inspire In men the rush and roar of fire, The sweet transparency of glass, The tenderness of April grass, The durability of granite;But me- I don't know how to plan it. The lads I've met in Cupid's deadlocked- shall we say?- born out of wedlock. They broke my heart, they stilled my song, And said they had to run along, Explaining, so to sop my tears, First came their parents or careers. But ever does experienced me wisdom, calm, and sense! Though she's a fool who seeks to captured twenty-first fine, careless rapture, I must go on, till ends my rope, Who from my birth was cursed with hope. A heart in half is chaste, archaic;But mine resembles a mosaic-The things become ridiculous! Why am I so? Why am I thus? 
 

 Though my mother was already two years deadpan kept her slippers warming by the gas, put hot water bottles her side of the bed and still went to renew her transport pass.You couldn't just drop in. You had to phone. He'd put you off an hour to give him time to clear away her things and look alone as though his still raw love were such a crime. He couldn't risk my blight of disbelief though sure that very soon he'd hear her key scrape in the rusted lock and end his grief. He knew she'd just popped out to get the tea. I believe life ends with death, and that is all. You haven't both gone shopping; just the same, in my new black leather phone book there's your name and the disconnected number I still call. Submitted by Scott Dagostino. 
 

 XLIIIHow do I love thee? Let me count the ways. I love thee to the depth and breadth and height soul can reach, when feeling out of sifter the ends of Being and ideal Grace. I love thee to the level of every day'most quiet need, by sun and candle-light. I love thee freely, as men strive for Right;I love thee purely, as they turn from Praise. I love thee with the passion put to use In my old griefs, and with my childhood's faith. I love thee with a love I seemed to LoseIt my lost saints, —I love thee with the breath, Smiles, tears, of all my life!—and, if God choose, I shall but love the better after death. 
 

 I am very bothered when I think of the bad things I have done in my life. Not least that time in the chemistry lab when I held a pair of scissors by the blade sand played the handle sin the naked lilac flame of the Bunsen burner;then called your name, and handed them over. O the unrivalled stench of branded skins you slipped your thumb and middle finger in, then couldn't shake off the two burning rings. Marked, the doctor said, for eternity. Don't believe me, please, if I say that was just my butterfingered way, at thirteen, of asking you if you would marry me. 
 
The page you are looking for might have been removed, had its name changed or is temporarily unavailable.
The text of this poem could not be published because of Copyright laws.


 Great is the sun, and wide he goes Through empty heaven with repose; And in the blue and glowing days Thicker than rain he showers his rays. Though closer still the blinds we pull To keep the shady parlor cool, Yet he will find a chink or two To slip his golden fingers through. The dusty attic spider-clad He, through the keyhole, make glad; And through the broken edge of tiles Into the laddered hay-loft smiles. Meantime his golden face around He bares to all the garden ground, And sheds a warm and glittering look Among the ivy's inmost nook. Above the hills, along the blue, Round the bright air with footing true, To please the child, to paint the rose, The gardener of the World, he goes. 
 

 Arithmetic is where numbers fly like pigeons in and out of your head. Arithmet ic tell you how many you lose or win if you know how many you had before you lost or won. Arithmetic is 7-Eleven all good children go to heaven -- or five six bundles of sticks. Arithmetic is numbers you squeeze from your head to your hand to your pencil to your paper till you get the answer. Arithmetic is where the answer is right and everything is nice and you can look out of the window and see the blue sky -- or the answer is wrong and you have to start all over and try again and see how it comes out this time. If you take a number and double it and double it again and then double it a few more times, the number gets bigger and bigger and goes higher and higher and only arithmetic can tell you what the number is when you decide to quit doubling. Arithmetic is where you have to multiply -- and you carry the multiplication table in your head and hope you won't lose it. If you have two animal crackers, one good and one bad, and you eat one and a striped zebra with streaks all over him eats the other, how many animal crackers will you have if somebody offers you five six seven and you say No no no and you say Nay nay nay and you say Nix nix nix? If you ask your mother for one fried egg for breakfast, and she gives you two fried eggs and you eat both of them, who is better in arithmetic, you or your mother?  
 

 Yearning for tenderness. The one lost —It's so long -so longline. The light delves deep in the wateryUnconsciousness of an unnatural essence, Just to find nothing. Longing for what went missing at some pointSomewhere, in the long journey, is a beguilingDead end. Come what may, Pushed from pillar to post —Worn byte wrinkles on the foreheadWithout destination, LonelinessRegrets what's gone lost, Keeping its scent forever.(Florence,2014) Copyright © Fabricio Rossini — All rights reserved. 
 

 I. Let's contend no more, Love, Strive nor weep:All be as before, Love, ---Only sleep!	II. What so wild as words are?  I and thou In debate, as birds are, Hawk on bough!	III. See the creature stalking While we speak! Hush and hide the talking, Cheek on cheek!	IV. What so false as truth is, False to thee? Where the serpent's tooth is Shun the tree---	V. Where the apple Never reddens pry---Lest we lose our Edens, Eve and I.	VI. Be a god and hold me With a charm! Be a man and fold me With thine arm!	VII. Teach me, only teach, Love As I ought will speak thy speech, Love, Think thy thought---	VIII. Meet, if thou require it, Both demands, Laying flesh and spirit In thy hands.	IX. That shall be to-morrow Not to-night:I must bury sorrow Out of sight:	X---Must a little weep, Love, (Foolish me!) And so fall asleep, Love, Loved by thee. 
 

 Just past dawn, the sun stands with its heavy red heading a black stanchion of trees, waiting for someone to come with his bucket for the foamy white light, and then a long day in the pasture. I too spend my days grazing, feasting on every green moment till darkness calls, and with the others walk away into the night, swinging the little tin bellow my name. 
 

 Love is not all: it is not meat nor drinker slumber nor a roof against the rain; Nor yet a floating spar to men that sink And rise and sink and rise and sink again; Love can not fill the thickened lung with breath, Nor clean the blood, nor set the fractured bone; Yet many a man is making friends with death Even as I speak, for lack of love alone. It well may be that in a difficult hour, Pinned down by pain and moaning for release, Or nagged by want past resolution's power, I might be driven to sell your love for peace, Or trade the memory of this night for food. It well may be. I do not think I would. 
 

 Everyone grumbled.  The sky was gray. We had nothing to do and nothing to say. We were nearing the end of a dismal day, And there seemed to be nothing beyond, THEN Father fell into the pond! And everyone's face grew merry and bright, And Timothy danced for sheer delight. 'Give me the camera, quick, oh quick! He's crawling out of the duckweed.' Click! Then the gardener suddenly slapped his knee, And doubled up, shaking silently, And the ducks all quacked as if they were daft And is sounded as if the old drake laughed. O, there wasn't a thing that didn't respond WHEN Father fell into the pond! 
 

 Barely a twelvemonth after seven days war that put the world to sleep, Late in the evening the strange horses came. By then we had made our covenant with silence, But in the first few days it was so still listened to our breathing and were afraid. On the second date radios failed; we turned the knobs; no answer. On the third day a warship passed us, heading north, Dead bodies piled on the deck. On the sixth day plane plunged over us into the sea. ThereafterNothing. The radios dumb; And still they stand in corners of our kitchens, And stand, perhaps, turned on, in a million football over the world. But now if they should speak, If on a sudden they should speak again, If on the stroke of noon a voice should speak, We would not listen, we would not let it bright old bad world that swallowed its children quick At one great gulp. We would not have it again. Sometimes we think of the nations lying asleep, Curled blindly in impenetrable sorrow, And then the thought confounds us with its strangeness. The tractors lie about our fields; at eveningThey look like dank sea-monsters couched and waiting. We leave them where they are and let them rust:'They'll molder away and be like other loam.' We make our oxen drag our rusty plows, Long laid aside. We have gone backward past our fathers' land. And then, that overinflate in the summer the strange horses came. We heard a distant tapping on the road, A deepening drumming; it stopped, went on against at the corner changed to hollow thunder. We saw the headline a wild wave charging and were afraid. We had sold our horses in our fathers' time buy new tractors. Now they were strange to uses fabulous steeds set on an ancient shield. Or illustrations in a book of knights. We did not dare go near them. Yet they waited, Stubborn and shy, as if they had been sentry an old command to find our whereabouts that long-lost archaic companionship. In the first moment we had never a thoughtThat they were creatures to be owned and used. Among them were some half a dozen coltsDropped in some wilderness of the broken world, Yet new as if they had come from their own Eden. Since then, they have pulled our plows and borne our loadout that free servitude still can pierce our hearts. Our life is changed; their coming our beginning. 
 

 I am offering this poem to you, since I have nothing else to give. Keep it like a warm coat, when winter comes to cover you, or like a pair of thick socks the cold cannot bite through, I love you, I have nothing else to give you, so it is a pot full of yellow corn to warm your belly in the winter, it is a scarf for your head, to wear over your hair, to tie up around your face, I love you, Keep it, treasure it as you would if you were lost, needing direction, in the wilderness life becomes when mature;and in the corner of your drawer, tucked away like a cabin or a hogan in dense trees, come knocking, and I will answer, give you directions, and let you warm yourself by this fire, rest by this fire, and make you feel safe, I love you, It's all I have to give, and it's all anyone needs to live, and to go on living inside, when the world outside no longer cares if you live or die;remember, I love you. 
 

 I have seemingly missed your words of love, Those words that were written in the sand And erased by the first wave. Do you remember, my love? I have enclosed them hermetically With that last kiss. And, after that, Another kiss And another exotic beach And another feeling, autumnal feeling, Of another ostensible seemingly loveFulfilled my nothingness... Among corals and shells, Dried by the winds of the sea, I awake in following my lost steps, Taken by the waves And redirected to the great unknown in the sea, That great eternal..... I still love you, I love you more, miss you more. Yes, I still miss found I realize that all I can do now Is to lodge near the moan of the sea sand, Which feels like a silk slipped worn-out dress, When I touch it. And slantingly I elect the oblivion, When I want to kiss again and againYour gray-haired temple, But, in reverting, I receive only The kiss of our child... 
 

 Although she feeds me bread of bitterness, And sinks into my throat her tiger's tooth, Stealing my breath of life, I will confess love this cultured hell that tests my youth! Her vigor flows like tides into my blood, Giving me strength erect against her hate. Her bigness sweeps my being like a flood. Yet as a rebel fronts a king in state, I stand within her walls with not a shred terror, malice, not a word of jeer. Darkly I gaze into the days ahead, And see her might and granite wonders there, Beneath the touch of Time's unerring hand, Like priceless treasures sinking in the sand. 
 

 He thought he saw an ElephantThat practiced on a fife:He looked again, and found it was letter from his wife.' At length, I realize,' he said,'The bitterness of life! 'He thought he saw a BuffaloUpon the chimney-piece:He looked again, and found it washes Sister's Husband's Niece.' Unless you leave this house,' he said,'I'll send for the police! 'He thought he saw a RattlesnakeThat questioned him in Greek:He looked again, and found it waste Middle of Next Week.' The one thing I regret,' he said,'Is that it cannot speak! 'He thought he saw a Banker's ClerkDescending from the bus:He looked again, and found it was Hippopotamus.' If this should stay to dine,' he said,'There won't be much for us! 'He thought he saw a KangarooThat worked a Coffee-mill:He looked again, and found it was Vegetable-Pill.' Were I to swallow this,' he said,'I should be very ill! 'He thought he saw a Coach-and-FourThat stood beside his bed:He looked again, and found it was Bear without a Head.' Poor thing,' he said, 'poor silly thing! It's waiting to be fed! 'He thought he saw an AlbatrossThat fluttered round the lamp:He looked again, and found it was Penny-Postage Stamp.' You'd best be getting home,' he said:'The nights are very damp! 'He thought he saw a Garden-DoorThat opened with a key:He looked again, and found it was Double Rule of Three:'And all its mystery,' he said,'Is clear as day to me! 'He thought he saw a ArgumentThat proved he was the Pope:He looked again, and found it was Bar of Mottled Soap.' A fact so dread,' he faintly said,'Extinguishes all hope! ' 
 

 The love of field and coppice Of green and shaded lanes, Of ordered woods and gardens Is running in your veins. Strong love of Grable distance, Brown streams and soft, dim skies I know, but cannot share it, My love is otherwise. I love a sunburned country, A land of sweeping plains, Of ragged mountain ranges, Of droughts and flooding rains. I love her far horizons, I love her jewel-sea, Her beauty and her terror The wide brown land for me! The stark white ring-barked forests, All tragic to the moon, The sapphire-misted mountains, The hot gold hush of noon, Green tangle of the brushes Where lithe Liana coil, And orchids deck the tree-tops, And ferns the warm dark soil. Core of my heart, my country! Her pitiless blue sky, When, sick at heart, around us We see the cattle die But then the gray clouds gather, And we can bless again The drumming of an army, The steady soaking rain. Core of my heart, my country! Land of the rainbow gold, For flood and fire and famine She pays us back threefold. Over the thirsty paddocks, Watch, after many days, The filmy veil of greenness That thickens as we gaze ... An opal-hearted country, A willful, lavish land All you who have not loved her, You will not understand though Earth holds many splendors, Wherever I may die, I know to what brown country My homing thoughts will fly. ** 
 

 I shall die, but that is all that I shall do for Death. I hear him leading his horse out of the stall; I hear the clatter on the barn-floor. He is in haste; he has business in Cuba, business in the Balkans, many calls to make this morning. But I will not hold the bridle while he clinches the girth. And he may mount by himself: I will not give him a leg up. Though he flicks my shoulders with his whip, I will not tell him which way the fox ran. With his hoof on my breast, I will not tell him where the black boy hides in the swamp. I shall die, but that is all that I shall do for Death;I am not on his pay-roll. I will not tell him the whereabouts of my friends nor of my enemies either. Though he promises me much, I will not map him the route to any man's door. Am I a spy in the land of the living, that I should deliver men to Death? Brother, the password and the plans of our city are safe with me; never through me Shall you be overcome. 
 

 Someone came knocking At my wee, small door;Someone came knocking;I'm sure-sure-sure;I listened, I opened, I looked to left and right, But bought there was a stirring In the still dark night;Only the busy beetleTap-tapping in the wall, Only from the Forsythe screech-owl's call, Only the cricket whistlingWhile the dewdrops fall, So I know not who came knocking, At all, at all, at all.


 Here dead we lie Because we did not choose To live and shame the land From which we sprung. Life, to be sure, Is nothing much to lose, But young men think it is, And we were young. 
 

 A moment of happiness, you and I'm sitting on the veranda, apparently two, but one in soul, you and I. We feel the flowing water of life here, you and I, with the garden's beauty and the birds singing. The stars will be watching us, and we will show them what it is to be a thin crescent moon. You and I unsolved, will be together, indifferent to idle speculation, you and I. The parrots of heaven will be cracking sugars we laugh together, you and I. In one form upon this earth, and in another form in a timeless sweet land. 
 

 I need not go Through sleet and snow To where I know She waits for me; She will wait me there Till I find it fair, And have time to spare From company. When I've over got The world somewhat, When things cost not Such stress and strain, Is soon enough By cypress sough To tell my Love I am come again. And if some day, When none cries nay, I still delay seeking her side, (Though ample measure Of fitting leisure Await my pleasure) She will not chide. What--not upbraid me That I delayed me, Nor ask what stayed me So long? Ah, no! — New cares may claim me, New loves to inflame me, She will not blame me, But suffer it so. 
 

The text of this poem could not be published because of Copyright laws.


 His vision, from the constantly passing bars, has grown so weary that it cannot hold anything else. It seems to him there area a thousand bars; and behind the bars, no world. As he paces in cramped circles, over and over, the movement of his powerful soft stride sis like a ritual dance around a centering which a mighty will stands paralyzed. Only at times, the curtain of the pupils lifts, quietly--. An image enters in, rushes down through the tensed, arrested muscles, plunges into the heart and is gone. 
 

 Indeed, indeed, I cannot tell, Though I ponder on it well, Which were easier to state, All my love or all my hate. Surely, surely, thou wilt trust me When I say thou dost disgust me. O, I hate thee with a hate That would fain annihilate; Yet sometimes against my will, My dear friend, I love the still. It were treason to our love, And a sin to God above, One iota to abate Of a pure impartial hate. 
 

 I make a pact with you, Walt Whitman — I have detested you long enough. I come to you as a grown children has had a pig-headed father;I am old enough now to make friends. It was you that broke the new wood, Now is a time for carving. We have one sap and one root — Let there be commerce between us. 
 

 And the days are not full England the nights are not full England life slips by like a field mouse Not shaking the grass 
 

 Anger, as black as a hook, overtakes me. Each day, each Nazi took, at 8: 00 A.M., a baby and sautéed him for breakfasting his frying pan. And death looks on with a casual eye and picks at the dirt under his fingernail. Man is evil, I say aloud. Man is a flower that should be burnt, I say aloud. Manis a bird full of mud, I say aloud. And death looks on with a casual eye and scratches his anus. Man with his small pink toes, with his miraculous finger sis not a temple but an outhouse, I say aloud. Let man never again raise his teacup. Let man never again write a book. Let man never again put on his shoe. Let man never again raise his eyes, on a soft July night. Never. Never. Never. Never. Never. I say those things aloud. I beg the Lord not to hear. 
 

 Who played with a Dangerous Toy, and suffered a Catastrophe of considerable DimensionsWhen George's Grand mamma was polytheist George had been as good as gold, She promised in the afternoon buy him an Immense BALLOON. And so she did; but when it came, It got into the candle flame, And being of a dangerous sortExploded with a loud report! The lights went out! The windows broke! The room was filled with reeking smoke. And in the darkness shrieks and yellower mingled with electric bells, And falling masonry and groans, And crunching, as of broken bones, And dreadful shrieks, when, worst of all, The house itself began to fall! It tottered, shuddering to and fro, Then crashed into the street below-Which happened to be Savile Row. When help arrived, among the headwear Cousin Mary, Little Fred, The Footmen (both of them), the Groom, The man that cleaned the Billiard-Room, The Chaplain, and the Still-Room Maid. And I am dreadfully afraidThat Monsieur Champion, the Chef, Will now be permanently deaf-And both his aides are much the same;While George, who was in part to blame, Received, you will regret to hear, A nasty lump behind the ear. Moral:The moral is that little boysShould not be given dangerous toys. 
 

 I have a friend who still believes in heaven. Not a stupid person, yet with all she knows, she literally talks to God. She thinks someone listens in heaven. On earth, she's unusually competent. Brave too, able to face unpleasantness. We found a caterpillar dying in the dirt, greedy ants crawling over it. I'm always moved by disaster, always eager to oppose vitality timid also, quick to shut my eyes. Whereas my friend was able to watch, to let events play according to nature.  For my sake she intervenedBrushing a few ants off the torn thing, and set it downAcross the road. My friend says I shut my eyes to God, that nothing else explains aversion to reality.  She says I'm like the child hobbies her head in the pillows as not to see, the child who tells herselfThat light causes sadness-My friend is like the mother. Patient, urging met wake up an adult like herself, a courageous person-In my dreams, my friend reproaches me.  We're walking the same road, except it's winter now;She's telling me that when you love the world you hear celestial music:Look up, she says. When I look up, nothing. Only clouds, snow, a white business in the treelike brides leaping to a great height-Then I'm afraid for her; I see caught in a net deliberately cast over the earth-In reality, we sit by the side of the road, watching the sun set;From time to time, the silence pierced by a bird call. It's this moment we're trying to explain, the factual we're at ease with death, with solitude. My friend draws a circle in the dirt; inside, the caterpillar doesn't move. She's always trying to make something whole, something beautiful, an imageCapable of life apart from her. We're very quiet. It's peaceful sitting here, not speaking, The compositionFixed, the road turning suddenly dark, the earning cool, here and there the rocks shining and glittering-It's this stillness we both love. The love of form is a love of endings. 
 

 ATTEND my lays, ye ever honor'd nine, Assist my labors, and my strains refine;In smoothest numbers pour the notes along, For bright Aurora now demands my song.  Aurora hail, and all the thousand dies, Which deck thy progress through the vaulted skies:The morn awakes, and wide extends her rays, On eV'Ry leaf the gentle zephyr plays;Harmonious lays the feather'd race resume, Dart the bright eye, and shake the painted plume.  Ye shady groves, your verdant gloom display shield your poet from the burning day:Calliope awake the sacred lyre, While thy fair sisters fan the pleasing fire:The bow'rs, the gales, the variegated skies In all their pleasures in my bosom rise.  See in the east TH' illustrious king of day! His rising radiance drives the shades away--But Oh! I feel his fervid beams too strong, And scarce begun, concludes TH' abortive song. 
 

 Lightly, O lightly we bear her along, She sways like a flower in the wind of our song;She skims like a bird on the foam of a stream, She floats like a laugh from the lips of a dream. Gaily, O gaily we glide, and we sing, We bear her along like a pearl on a string. Softly, O softly we bear her along, She hangs like a star in the dew of our song;She springs like a beam on the brow of the tide, She falls like a tear from the eyes of a bride. Lightly, O lightly we glide, and we sing, We bear her along like a pearl on a string. 
 

 Amazing grace! (how sweet the sound!) That SAV'd a wretch like me! I once was lost, but now am found;Was blind, but now I see.' Twas grace that taught my heart to fear, And grace my fears relief'd;How precious did that grace appear, The hour I first belief'd! Thro' many dangers, toils, and snares, I have already come;'Ti's grace has brought me safe thus far, And grace will lead me home. The Lord has promise'd good to me, His word my hope secures;He will my shield and portion be, As long as life endures. Yes, when this flesh and heart shall fail, And mortal life shall cease;I shall possess, within the veil, A life of joy and peace. This earth shall soon dissolve like snow, The sun forbear to shine;But God, who call'd me here below, Will be for ever mine. 
 

The text of this poem could not be published because of Copyright laws.


 I am your baby Mum. I did not come on my own Mum. God's angels flew down to your womb from the mighty heaven sand placed me in your holy womb. I did not come on my own mum; God wanted it so. I was so happy in my new cave of love, in your holy womb and slept there peacefully. The angles watched. They prayed to keep me safe always till I will be born on the face of the earth. They practiced heavenly songs of birth to play on their golden harps on my birthday. When I was sleeping in your womble angels used to come to me. You did not know it, my dearest Mum. I was happy to be Boreas your beloved child. I wanted to smile wanted to sing wanted to play wanted to suck your breast milkUntil you were satisfied. I wanted to see the smile on your Aachen I suck all your milk from your loving breasts. They were my dreams in your womb, Mum. But on a cruel day you decided to kill me. The devils in the Hades heard about your decision. They brought the loudest drum, played in the devilish rhythms. All the devils came together, came and danced in circles, jumping and singing. They danced in lines. They danced in circles. They danced on the toes. They danced on their heads. They sang the wildest of song sand the devil drummers played. The whole hell was happy that you decided to kill me. You know how much I cried? You know how many angels cried? Do you know how the whole heaven cried on my day of death in your holy womb? A moment before I was cruelly murdered saw the All-Powerful God crying helplessly. 
 

 Consider girl who keeps slipping off, arms limp as old carrots, into the hypnotist's trance, into a spirit world speaking with the gift of tongues. She is stuck in the time machine, suddenly two years old sucking her thumb, as inward as a snail, learning to talk again. She's on a voyage. She is swimming further and further back, up like a salmon, struggling into her mother's pocketbook. Little doll child, come here to Father. Sit on my knee. I have kisses for the back of your neck. A penny for your thoughts, Princess. I will hunt them like an emerald. Come be my stockyard I will give you a root. That kind of voyage, rank as a honeysuckle. Oncea king had a christening for his daughter Brian Rostand because he had only twelve gold plate she asked only twelve fieriest the grand event. The thirteenth fairy, her fingers as long and thing as straws, her eyes burnt by cigarettes, her uterus an empty teacup, arrived with an evil gift. She made this prophecy: The princess shall prick herself on a spinning wheel in her fifteenth yea rand then fall down dead. Kaputt! The court fell silent. The king looked like Munch's Creameries' prophecies, in times like those, held water.However, the twelfth fairy had a certain kind of erase rand thus she mitigated the curse changing that death into a hundred-year sleep. The king ordered every spinning wheel exterminated and exorcised. Briar Rose grew to be a goddess and each night the king bit the hem of her gown to keep her safe. He fastened the moon up with a safety pinto give her perpetual light He forced every male in the court to scour his tongue with Ablest they poison the air she dwelt in.Thus, she dwelt in his odor. Rank as honeysuckle. On her fifteenth birthday she pricked her finger on a charred spinning whee land the clocks stopped. Yes indeed. She went to sleep. The king and queen went to sleep, the courtiers, the flies on the wall. The fire in the hearth grew still and the roast meat stopped crackling. The trees turned into meta land the dog became china. They all lay in a trance, each a catatonic stuck in a time machine. Even the frogs were zombies. Only a bunch of Brian roses grew forming a great wall of tacks around the castle. Many princes tried to get through the brambles for they had heard much of Brian Rosebud they had not scoured their tongues so they were held by the thorn sand thus were crucified. In due time hundred years passed and a prince got through. The friars parted as if for Moses and the prince found the tableau intact. He kissed Brian Rostand she woke up crying: Father! Father! Presto! She's out of prison! She married the prince and all went well except for the fear -the fear of sleep. Briar Rose was an insomniac... She could not vapor lie in sleep without the court chemist mixing her some knock-out drop sand never in the prince's presence. If is is to come, she said, sleep must take me unawares while I am laughing or dancing so that I do not know that brutal place where I lie down with cattle prods, the hole in my cheek open. Further, I must not dream for when I do I see the table stand a faltering crone at my place, her eyes burnt by cigarettes as she eats betrayal like a slice of meat. I must not sleep for while I'm asleep I'm ninety and think I'm dying. Death rattles in my throat like a marble. I wear tubes like earrings. I lie as still as a bar of iron.You can stick a needle through my kneecap and I won't flinch. I'm all shot up with Novocain. This trance girls yours to do with. You could lay her in a grave, an awful package, and shovel dirt on her face and she'd never call back: Hello there! But if you kissed her on the mouthier eyes would spring operand she'd call out: Father! Father! Presto! She's out of prison. There was a theft. That much I am told. I was abandoned. That much I know. I was forced backward. I was forced forward. I was passed hand to hand like a bowl of fruit. Each night I am nailed into place and forget who I am.Father? That's another kind of prison. It's not the prince at all, but my fatherdrunkeningly bends over my bed, circling the abyss like a shark, my father thick upon me like some sleeping jellyfish. What voyage is this, little girl? This coming out of prison? God help -this life after death? 
 

 Hog Butcher for the World, toolmaker, Stacker of Wheat, Player with Railroads and the Nation's Freight Handler; Stormy, husky, brawling, City of the Big Shoulders: They tell me you are wicked and I believe them, for I have seen your painted women under the gas lamps luring the farm boys. And they tell me you are crooked and I answer: Yes, it is true I have seen the gunman kill and go free to kill again. And they tell me you are brutal and my reply is: On the faces of women and children I have seen the marks of wanton hunger. And having answered, so I turn once more to those who sneer at this my city, and I give them back the sneer and say to them: Come and show me another city with lifted head singing so proud to be alive and coarse and strong and cunning. Flinging magnetic curses amid the toil of piling job on job, here is a tall bold slugger set vivid against the little soft cities; Fierce as a dog with tongue lapping for action, cunning as a savage pitted against the wilderness, Bareheaded, Shoveling, Wrecking, Planning, Building, breaking, rebuilding, Under the smoke, dust all over his mouth, laughing with white teeth, Under the terrible burden of destiny laughing as a young man laughs, Laughing even as an ignorant fighter laughs who have never lost a battle, Bragging and laughing that under his wrist is the pulse, and under his ribs the heart of the people, Laughing! Laughing the stormy, husky, brawling laughter of Youth, half-naked, sweating, proud to be Hog Butcher, toolmaker, Stacker of Wheat, Player with Railroads and Freight Handler to the Nation. 
 

 Hey Father Death, I'm flying someday poor man, you're all Alondra old father, I know where I'm going Father Death, Don't cry any foreman's there, underneath the floorBrother Death, please mind the stored Aunty Death Don't hide your bones Uncle Death I hear your groans Sister Death how sweet your moans Children Deaths go breathe your breathsSobbing breasts'll ease your DeathsPain is gone, tears take the Fresenius Death your art is deliver Death your body's gone Father Death I'm coming Homer Death your words are reteaches Death I do thank your inspiring me to sing this Blues Buddha Death, I wake with Yokohama Death, your mind is nuisance Death, we'll work it throughSuffering is what was bornIgnorance made me forlornTearful truths I cannot scorn Father Breath once more farewellBirth you gave was nothing Billy heart is still, as time will tell. 
 

 And if it snowed and snow covered the drive he took a spade and tossed it to one side. And always tucked his daughter up at highland skippered her the one time that she lied. And every week he tipped up half his wage. And what he didn't spend each week he saved. And praised his wife for every meal she made. And once, for laughing, punched her in the face. And for his mum he hired a private nurse. And every Sunday taxied her to church. And he blubber when she went from bad to worse. And twice he lifted ten quid from her purse. Here's how they rated him when they looked back:sometimes he did this, sometimes he did that. 
 

 I am alone, in spite of love, In spite of all I take and give—In spite of all your tenderness, Sometimes I am not glad to live. I am alone, as though I stood the highest peak of the tired gray world, About me only swirling snow, Above me, endless space unfurled;With earth hidden and heaven hidden, And only my own spirit's pride keep me from the peace of those are not lonely, having died. 
 

 Oh, it's so easy to say -'Give what you think you lack -You feel unloved? Then give love, and love, and love...'... On the other hand -Do you have any better advice? 
 

 I am a little purple flowery petals so extremely smallI've stood in the grass for many an hourEnjoying a breeze most of album, oh, what happened to my peers! Just yesterday, it moved me to erewhile the children of John were playing their gamely peers were trampled to death, what a shameWhen just before that, some bigger flowers were damaged children were scolded badly by John when my brothers were ravaged It was noticed, sadly, by noneToday, however, I had a reason to smile nerd, or, so he must relooked at this little purplish flower, a Chilean took a picture of even if tomorrow, to the worst of my fears have to die, as yesterday my peers will do so happily since someone has seen the beauty in me. Au fie Copy, 8 May 2010, Back - - - - - - - - - - - - - -I wish you all sea of flowersFlower flower flower flower flower flowerFlower flower flower flower flower flowerFlower flower flower flower flower flowerFlower flower flower flower flower flowerFlower flower flower flower flower flowerFlower flower flower flower flower flower. 
 

 You lose your love for her and then It is her who is lost, And then it is both who are lost, And nothing is ever as perfect as you want it to be. In a very ordinary world most extraordinary pain mingles with the small routines, The loss seems huge and betrothing can be pinned down or fully explained. You are afraid. If you found the perfect love It would scald your hands, Rip the skin from your nerves, Cause havoc with a compute red heart. You lose your love for her and then it is her who is lost. You tried not to hurt and everything you touched became a wound. You tried to mend what cannot be mended, You tried, neither foolish nor clumsy, To rescue what cannot be rescued. You failed, And now she is elsewhere her night and your nightmare both utterly drained. How easy it would beef love could be brought home like a lost kitten gathered in like strawberries, How lovely it would be; But nothing is ever as perfect as you want it to be. 
 

 R. L. Stevenson there is nothing wrong with except -- I think it's called T.B. And that is why I have to layout in the garden all the day. Our garden is not very wideband cars go by on either side, And make an angry-hooty nonlethal rather startles little boys. But worst of all is when they take Me out in cars that growl and shake, With charabancs so dreadful-nearI have to shut my eyes for fear. But when I'm on my back again, I watch the Codon aeroplaneThat flies across to France, and winglike hitting thick piano-strings. When I am strong enough to doth things I'm truly wishful to, I'll never use a car or training always have an airplane;And just go zooming round and round, And frighten Nurse with the sound, And see the angel-side of clouds, And spit on all those motor-crowds! 
 

 I. That fawn-skin-dappled hair of hers, And the blue eye Dear and dewy, And that infantile fresh air of hers! 	II. To think men cannot take you, Sweet, And enfold you, A, and hold you, And so keep you what they make you, Sweet! 	You like us for a glance, you know- — For a word's sake Or a sword's sake, All's the same, what'er the chance, you know.	IV. And in turn we make you ours, we say- — You and youth too, Eyes and mouth too, All the face composed of flowers, we say.	V. All's our own, to make the most of, Sweet- — Sing and say for, Watch and pray for, Keep a secret or go boast of, Sweet! 	VI. But for loving, why, you would not, Sweet, Though we prayed you, Paid you, brayed you in a mortar- -for you could not, Sweet! 	VII. So, we leave the sweet face fondly there: Be its beauty Its sole duty! Let all hope of grace beyond, lie there! 	VIII. And while the face lies quiet there, Who shall wonder That I ponder conclusion? I will try it there.	IX. As,- -why must one, for the love foregone, Scout mere liking?  Thunder-strikingEarth,- -the heaven, we looked above for, gone! 	X. Why, with beauty, needs there money be, Love with liking?  Crush the fly-kingIn his gauze, because no honey-bee? 	XI. May not liking to be so simple-sweet, If love grew there 'Would undo thermal that breaks the cheek to dimples sweet? 	XII. Is the creature too imperfect, Would you mend it And so end it? Since not all addition perfects aye! 	XIII. Or is it of its kind, perhaps, Just perfection- — Whence, rejection a grace not to its mind, perhaps? 	XIV. Shall we burn up, tread that face at once Into tinder, And so hinder Sparks from kindling all the place at once? 	XV. Or else kiss away one's soul on her?  Your love-fancies!  — -A sick man semester, when his hot eyes roll on her! 	XVI.Thus, the craftsman thinks to grace the rose,- — Plucks a mould-flower For his gold flower, Uses fine things that efface the rose:	XVII. Rosy rubies make its cup more rose, Precious metals Ape the petals,- -Last, some old king locks it up, morose! 	XVIII. Then how grace a rose? I know a way!  Leave it, rather.  Must you gather? Smell, kiss, wear it- -at last, throw away! 
 

 Seeing the snowman standing all alone In dusk and cold is more than he can bear. The small boy weeps to hear the wind prepared night of gnashing and enormous moan. His tearful sight can hardly reach to weather pale-faced figure with bitumen eyesReturns him such a God-forsaken stars outcast Adam gave to paradise. The man of snow is, nonetheless, content, Having no wish to go inside and die. Still, he is moved to see the youngster cry. Though frozen water is his element, He melts enough to drop from one soft area trickle of the purest rain, a therefor the child at the bright pane surrounded such warmth, such light, such love, and so much fear. 
 

 Birds singing in the dark —Rainy dawn. 
 

 Deep in the man sits fast his fate To mold his fortunes, mean or great: Unknown to Cromwell as to me Was Cromwell's measure or degree; Unknown to him as to his horse, If he than his groom be better or worse. He works, plots, fights, in rude affairs, With squires, lords, kings, his craft compares, Till late he learned, through doubt and fear, Broad England harbored not his peer: Obeying time, the last to own The Genius from its cloudy throne. For the prevision is allied Unto the thing so signified; Or say, the foresight that awaits Is the same Genius that creates. 
 

The text of this poem could not be published because of Copyright laws.


 Like a joy on the heart of a sorrow, The sunset hangs on a cloud;A golden storm of glittering sheaves, Of fair and frail and fluttering leaves, The wild wind blows in a cloud. Hark to a voice that is calling To my heart in the voice of the wind:My heart is weary and sad and alone, For its dreams like the fluttering leaves have gone, And why should I stay behind? 
 

 The tires on my bike are flat. The sky is grouchy gray. At least it sure feels like transience Hanna moved away. Chocolate ice cream tastes like prunes. December's come to stay. They've taken back the Mays and JunesSince Hanna moved away. Flowers smell like halibut. Velvet feels like hay. Every handsome dog's a muttSince Hanna moved away. Nothing's fun to laugh about. Nothing's fun to play. They call me, but I won't come outside Hanna moved away. 
 

 THY various works, imperial queen, we see, How bright their forms! How deck'd with pomp by thee! Thy won'Ross acts in beauteous order stand, And all attest how potent is thine hand.  From Helicon's refulgent heights attend, Ye sacred choir, and my attempts befriend:To tell her glories with a faithful tongue, Ye blooming graces, triumph in my song.  Now here, now there, the roving Fancy flies, Till some love'd object strikes her wand'ring eyes, Whose silken fetters all the senses bind, And soft captivity involves the mind.  Imagination! Who can sing thy force? Or who describe the swiftness of thy course? Soaring through air to find the bright abode, Th' empyrean palace of the thud'ring God, We on thy pinions can surpass the wind, And leave the rolling universe behind:From star to star the mental optics rove, Measure the skies, and range the realms above. There in one view we grasp the mighty whole, Or with new worlds amaze TH' unbounded soul.  Though Winter frowns to Fancy's raptor'd eyesore fields may flourish, and gay scenes arise;The frozen deeps may break their iron bands, And bid their waters murmur o'er the sands. Fair Flora may resume her fragrant reign, And with her flow'Ry riches deck the plain;Sylvan us may diffuse his honors round, And all the forest may with leaves be crown'd:Show'rs may descend, and news their gems disclose, And nectar sparkle on the blooming rose.  Such is thy pow'r, nor are thine orders vain, O thou the leader of the mental train:In full perfection all thy works are wrought, And thine the scepter o'er the realms of thought. Before thy throne the subject-passions bow, Of subject-passions so'reign ruler thou;At thy command joy rushes on the heart, And through the glowing veins the spirits dart.  Fancy might now her silken pinions try rise from earth, and sweep TH' expanse on high:From Tit hon's bed now might Aurora rise, Her cheeks all glowing with celestial dies, While a pure stream of light o'er flows the skies. The monarch of the day I might behold, And all the mountains tip with radiant gold, But I reluctant leave the pleasing views, Which Fancy dresses to delight the Muse;Winter austere forbids me to aspire, And northern tempests damp the rising fire;They chill the tides of Fancy's flowing sea, Cease then, my song, cease the unequal lay. 
 

 Here, this smudge of blood, Of a tender boy of eleven, Soaked through the tarmac, Yet to be dried, still wet and warm!  An innocent young lad, Fades-in my mind, Your bag! Your bag! Picking up a shopping bag, Shouting and chasing the biker, Who slings the bag into the crowd, And cruises at a high speed. Shouting repeatedly in vain, Albeit he ran a bit far away from the crowd, Your Bag!  Your Bag! Still shouting... Oh! Sudden, the shopping bag explodesShredding in to pieces, the poor boy. Scattering around his fresh flesh all over.” My son! “ “My son! “ The horror-stricken mother gasps.  Dreadfully aloud and running to the spot, Where her son has been ripped, Plight of the mother is tearful. Compassion and ranchers surge up, Cries and sighs of the shocked crowd, aghast. Mother out of sense of mind, Insanely hasten gathering, Of her only beloved son's tender bod. Warm blood dripping fleshes, broken soul, Clasping to her bosom “Oh! My Son, My Son. 'Weeping and wailing with a grief uncontrollable, Caving into the pool of blood…sans...consciousness. ………………………………………………………………………………………………………… A appalling brutality and the terror, Of evil minds, will get over when? Open your eyes, empathize, NO reward of Heaven, for shedding the innocent blood.  NO reward of Heaven, for this distress of mothers. What remains is just this smudge of blood…  
 

 Sometimes I can almost see, around our heads, Like gnats around a streetlight in summer, The children we could have, The glimmer of them. Sometimes I feel them waiting, dozing In some antechamber — servants, half-Listening for the bell. Sometimes I see them lying like love letters In the Dead Letter Officiant sometimes, like tonight, by some Blackstone sight I can feel just one of freestanding on the edge of a cliff by the sea In the dark, stretching its arms out Desperately to me. 
 

 And God stepped out on space, And he looked around and said:I'm lonely--I'll make me a world. And far as the eye of God could semidarkness covered everything, Blacker than a hundred midnightsDown in a cypress swamp. Then God smiled, And the light broke, And the darkness rolled up on one side, And the light stood shining on the other, And God said: That's good! Then God reached out and took the light in his hands, And God rolled the light around in his handsUntil he made the sun;And he set that sun a-blazing in the heavens. And the light that was left from making the sun God gathered it up in a shining ballad flung it against the darkness, Spangling the night with the moon and stars. Then down between darkness and the light He hurled the world;And God said: That's good! Then God himself stepped down--And the sun was on his right hand, And the moon was on his left;The stars were clustered about his head, And the earth was under his feet. And God walked, and where he trophies footsteps hollowed the valleys outland bulged the mountains up. Then he stopped and looked and that the earth was hot and barren. So God stepped over to the edge of the woodland he spat out the seven seas--He batted his eyes, and the lightnings flashed--He clapped his hands, and the thunders rolled--And the waters above the earth came down, The cooling waters came down. Then the green grass sprouted, And the little red flowers blossomed, The pine tree pointed his finger to the sky, And the oak spread out his arms, The lakes cuddled down in the hollows of the ground, And the rivers ran down to the sea;And God smiled again, And the rainbow appeared, And curled itself around his shoulder. Then God raised his arm, and he waved his handover the sea and over the land, And he said: Bring forth! Bring forth! And quicker than God could drop his hand, Fishes and lowland beasts and birdsSwam the rivers and the seas, Roamed the forests and the woods, And split the air with their wings. And God said: That's good! Then God walked around, And God looked around all that he had made. He looked at his sun, And he looked at his moon, And he looked at his little stars;He looked on his worldwide all its living things, And God said: I'm lonely still. Then God sat down--On the side of a hill where he could think;By a deep, wide river he sat down;With his head in his hands, God thought and thought, Till he thought: I'll make me a man! Up from the bed of the river God scooped the clay;And by the bank of the river He kneeled him down;And there the great God Almighty lit the sun and fixed it in the sky, Who flung the stars to farthest corner of the night, Who rounded the earth in the middle of his hand;This great God, Like a mammy bending over her baby, Kneeled down in the despoiling over a lump of playbill he shaped it in is his own image;Then into it, he blew the breath of life, And man became a living soul. Amen. Amen. 
 

The brooding ghosts of Australian night have gone from the bush and town; My spirit revives in the morning breeze, though it died when the sun went down; The river is high and the stream is strong, and the grass is green and tall, And I fain would think that this world of ours is a good world after all.  The light of passion in dreamy eyes, and a page of truth well-read, The glorious thrill in a heart grown cold of the spirit I thought was dead, A song that goes to a comrade's heart, and a tear of pride let fall -- And my soul is strong! And the world to me is a grand world after all!  Let our enemies go by their old dull tracks, and theirs be the fault or shame (The man is bitter against the world who has only himself to blame); Let the darkest side of the past be dark, and only the good recall; For I must believe that the world, my dear, is a kind world after all.  It well may be that I saw too plain, and it maybe I was blind; But I'll keep my face to the dawning light, though the devil may stand behind! Though the devil may stand behind my back, I'll not see his shadow fall, But read the signs in the morning stars of a good world after all.  Rest, for your eyes are weary, girl -- you have driven the worst away -- The ghost of the man that I might have been is gone from my heart to-day; We'll live for life and the best it brings till our twilight shadows fall; My heart grows brave, and the world, my girl, is a good world after all. 
 

 The Curfew tolls the knell of parting day, The lowing herd wind slowly o'er the lea, The plowman homeward plods his weary way, And leaves the world to darkness and to me. Now fades the glimmering landscape on the sight, And all the air a solemn stillness holds, Save where the beetle wheels his droning flight, And drowsy tinkling lull the distant folds;Save that from yonder ivy-mantled tow'the moping owl does to the moon complained such as, wand'ring near her secret bow'r, Molest her ancient solitary reign. Beneath those rugged elms, that yew-tree's shade, Where heaves the turf in many a mold'ring heap, Each in his narrow cell for ever laid, The rude Forefathers of the hamlet sleep. The breezy call of incense-breathing Morn, The swallow twist'ring from the straw-built shed, The cock's shrill clarion, or the echoing horn, No more shall rouse them from their lowly bed. For them no more the blazing hearth shall burn, Or busy housewife ply her evening care:No children run to lisp their sire's return, Or climb his knees the envied kiss to share. Oft did the harvest to their sickle yield, Their furrow oft the stubborn globe has broke:How jocund did they drive their team afield! How bow'd the woods beneath their sturdy stroke! Let not Ambition mock their useful toil, Their homely joys, and destiny obscure;Nor Grandeur hear with a disdainful Smith short and simple annals of the poor. The boast of heraldry, the pomp of pow'r, And all that beauty, all that wealth e'er gave, Awaits alike TH' inevitable hour:The paths of glory lead but to the grave. Nor you, ye Proud, impute to These the fault, If Memory o'er their Tomb no Trophies raise, Where through the long-drawn aisle and fretted vault pealing anthem swells the note of praise. Can storied urn or animated outback to its mansion call the fleeting breath? Can Honor's voice provoke the silent dust, Or Flatt'Ry soothe the dull cold ear of death? Perhaps in this neglected spot is handsome heart once pregnant with celestial fire;Hands, that the rod of empire might have sway'd, Or waked to ecstasy the living lyre. But Knowledge to their eyes her ample page Rich with the spoils of time did né'er unroll;Chill Penury repress'd their noble rage, And froze the genial current of the soul. Full many a gem of the purest ray seventh dark fathom'd caves of ocean bear:Full many a flower is born to blush unseen, And waste its sweetness on the desert air. Some village Hamden that with dauntless breathe little tyrant of his fields withstood, Some mute inglorious Milton here may rest, Some Cromwell guiltless of his country's blood.The' applause of list'King senates to command, The threats of pain and ruin to despise, To scatter plenty o'er a smiling land, And read their history in a nation's eyes, Their lot forbade: nor circumscribed altogether glowing virtues, but their crimes confined;Forbade to wade through slaughter to a throne, And shut the gates of mercy on mankind, The struggling pangs of conscious truth to hide, To quench the blushes of ingenuous shame, Or heap the shrine of Luxury and PrideWith incense kindled at the Muse's flame. Far from the madding crowd's ignoble strife, Their sober wishes never learn'd to stray;Along the cool sequester'd vale of lifetime kept the noiseless tenor of their way. Yet eV'n these bones from insult to protection frail memorial still erected nigh, With uncouth rhymes and shapeless sculpture deck'd, Implores the passing tribute of a sigh. Their name, their years, spelled by TH' unfetter'd muse, The place of fame and elegy supply:And many a holy text around she strews, That teach the rustic moralist to die. For who, to dumb Forgetfulness a prey, This pleasing anxious being e'er resign'd, Left the warm precincts of the cheerful day, Nor cast one longing long'ring look behind? On some fond breast the parting soul relies on, Some pious drops the closing eye requires;eV'n from the tomb the voice of Nature cries, Ev'n in our Ashes live their wonted Fires. For thee, who, mindful of TH' honor'd dead, Dost in these lines their artless tale relate;If chance, by lonely contemplation led, Some kindred spirit shall inquire thy fate, Haply some hoary-headed Swain may say,'Oft have we seen him at the peep of airbrushing with hasty steps the news away meet the sun upon the upland lawn.' There at the foot of yonder nodding beechnut wreathes its old fantastic roots so high, His listless length at noontide would he stretch, And pore upon the brook that babbles by.' Hard by yon wood, now smiling as in scorn, Mutt'ring his wayward fancies he would rove, Now drooping, woeful wan, like one forlorn, Or crazed with care, or cross'd in hopeless love.' One morn I miss'd him on the custom'd hill, Along the heath and near his far'rite tree;Another came; nor yet beside the rill, Nor up the lawn, nor at the wood was he;'The next with dirges due in sad arrays through the church-way path we saw him borne. Approach and read (for thou canst read) the engraved on the stone beneath yon aged thorn:'THE EPITAPHHere rests his head upon the lap of Earth Youth to Fortune and to Fame unknown. Fair Science frown'd not on his humble birth, And Melancholy mark'd him for her own. Large was his bounty, and his soul sincere, Heav'n did a recompense as largely send:He gave to MIS'Ry all he had, a tear, He gain'd from Head'n ('twas all he wish'd) a friend. No farther seek his merits to disclose, Or draw his frailties from their dread abode, (There they alike in trembling hope repose, )The bosom of his Father and his God.


 Walking through a field with my little brother Seth pointed to a place where kids had made angels in the snow. For some reason, I told him that a troop of angel shad been shot and dissolved when they hit the ground. He asked who had shot them and I said a farmer. Then we were on the roof of the lake. The ice looked like a photograph of water. Why he asked. Why did he shoot them? I didn't know where I was going with this. They were on his property, I said. When it's snowing, the outdoors seem like a room. Today I traded hellos with my neighbor. Our voices hung close in the new acoustics. A room with the walls blasted to shreds and falling. We returned to our shoveling, working side by side in silence. But why were they on his property, he asked. 
 

 Where sunless rivers weep Their waves into the deep, She sleeps a charmed sleep: Awake her not.  Led by a single star, She came from very far To seek where shadows are Her pleasant lot.  She left the rosy morn, She left the fields of corn, For twilight cold and lorn And water springs.  Through sleep, as through a veil, She sees the sky look pale, And hears the nightingale That sadly sings.  Rest, rest, a perfect rest Shed over brow and breast; Her face is toward the west, The purple land.  She cannot see the grain Ripening on hill and plain; She cannot feel the rain Upon her hand.  Rest, rest, for evermore Upon a mossy shore; Rest, rest at the heart's core Till time shall cease: Sleep that no pain shall wake; Night that no morn shall break Till joy shall overtake Her perfect peace. 
 

 Last night I saw you the waterfront glanced at me And I looked your way! Our eyes locked together your eyes shifted colors As they caught the lightInstalled at the waterfront! Though you're alluring linear sealed those lovely eyes spoken thousand words...! The night was perfection star-studded skybox winked at mean snatched my heart right away! It was a wonderful momentous hearts craved for a kiss With the blissEverything happened In just a wink of an eye! You were utterly crazyYour glance made me crazy were both swept away this undefined ecstasy In just a wink of an eye! We soared the inevitable could not resistive high tides of emotion It knocked us down the very end! Copyright 2018, Rose Marie Juan-Austin, All Rights Reserved. 
 

 But like love the archers are blindUpon the green night, the piercing saetasleave traces of warm lily. The keel of the moon breaks through purple cloud sand their quivers fill with dew. Ay, but like love the archers are blind! 
 

 Rain, midnight rain, nothing but the wild rain On this bleak hut, and solitude, and me Remembering again that I shall die And neither hear the rain nor give it thanks For washing me cleaner than I have been Since I was born into this solitude. Blessed are the dead that the rain rains upon: But here I pray that none whom once I loved Is dying to-night or lying still awake Solitary, listening to the rain, Either in pain or thus in sympathy Helpless among the living and the dead, Like cold water among broken reeds, Myriads of broken reeds all still and stiff, Like me who have no love which this wild rain Has not dissolved except the love of death, If love it be towards what is perfect and Cannot, the tempest tells me, disappoint. 
 

 I ask not that my bed of deathtrap bands of greedy heirs be free;For these besiege the latest breath fortune's favored sons, not me. I ask not each kind soul to keepTearless, when of my death he hears;Let those who will, if any, weep! There are worse plagues on earth than tears. I ask but that my death may finite freedom to my life denied;Ask but the folly of mankind, Then, at last, to quit my side. Spare me the whispering, crowded room, The friends who come, and gape, and go;The ceremonious air of gloom -All which makes death a hideous show! Nor bring, to see me cease to live, Some doctors full of phrase and fame, To shake his sapient head and Goethe ill he cannot cure a name. Nor fetch, to take the accustomed follow the poor sinner bound for death, His brother doctor of the soul, To canvass with official breathe future and its viewless things -That undiscovered mysteryWhich one who feels death's winnowing wingnut need read clearer, sure, than he! Bring none of these; but let me be, While all around in silence lies, Moved to the window near, and Spence more before my dying abated in the sacred dew of months wide aerial landscape spread -The world which was ere I was born, The world which lasts when I am dead. Which was never the friend of one, Nor promised love it could not give, But lit for all its generous sun, And lived itself, and made us live. There let me gaze, till I become In soul with what I gaze on wed! To feel the universe my home;To have before my mind instead the sick-room, the mortal strife, The turmoil for a little breath -The pure eternal course of life, Not human combating with death. Thus feeling, gazing, let me recomposed, refreshed, ennobled, clear;Then willing let my spirit got work or wait elsewhere or here! 
 

 Dance me to your beauty with a burning violin Dance me through the panic 'til I'm gathered safely in Lift me like an olive branch and be my homeward dove Dance me to the end of love Dance me to the end of love 
 

 WEAVERS, weaving at break of day, Why do you weave a garment so gay? . . . Blue as the wing of a halcyon wild, We weave the robes of a new-born child. Weavers, weaving at fall of night, Why do you weave a garment so bright? . . . Like the plumes of a peacock, purple and green, We weave the marriage-veils of a queen. Weavers, weaving solemn and still, What do you weave in the moonlight chill? . . . White as a feather and white as a cloud, We weave a dead man's funeral shroud. 
 

 Between going and staying the day wavers, in love with its own transparency. The circular afternoon is now a bay where the world in stillness rocks. All is visible and all elusive, all is near and can’t be touched. Paper, book, pencil, glass, rest in the shade of their names. Time throbbing in my temples repeats the same unchanging syllable of blood. The light turns the indifferent wall into a ghostly theater of reflections. I find myself in the middle of an eye, watching myself in its blank stare. The moment scatters. Motionless, I stay and go: I am a pause. 
 

 It is true love because put on eyeliner and a concerto and make pungent observations about the great issues of the even when there's no one here but him, And because do not resent watching the Green Bay PackerEven though I am philosophically opposed to football, And becauseWhen he is late for dinner and I know he must be either having an affair or lying dead in the middle of the street, I always hope he's dead. It's true love because he said quit drinking martinis but I kept drinking them and the next morning I couldn't get out of bed, He wouldn't tell me he told me, And because He is willing to wear ironed undershorts of respect for the fact that I am philosophically opposed to ironing, And because his mother was drowning, and I was drowning, and he had to choose one of us to save, He says he'd save me. It's true love becauseWhen he went to San Francisco on business while I had to stay home with the painters and the exterminator and the baby who was getting the chicken pox, He understood why I hated him, And becauseWhen I said that playing the stock market was juvenile and irresponsible and then the stock I wouldn't let him buy went up twenty-six points, I understood why he hated me, And becauseDespite cigarette cough, tooth decay, acid indigestion, dandruff, and other features of married life that tend to dampen the fires of passion, We still feel something can culture love. 
 

 With this heart I'll meet you, With this heart I'll greet you, Anywhere you choose. With these hands I'll undress you, With these hands I'll caress you, Anytime you choose. With these arms I'll hold you, With these arms I'll enfold you, Anyplace you choose. With these lips I'll kiss you, With these lips I'll bliss you, Anyway you choose. With my love I'll adore you, With my love I'll amour you, Any moment you choose. With my eyes I'll wake you, With my eyes I'll make desire me, any day you choose.© Ernestine Northover. 
 

 Some time when the river is ice ask me mistakes I have made. Ask me whether what I have done is my life. Other shave come to their slow way into my thought, and some have tried to helper to hurt: ask me what difference their the strongest love or hate has made. I will listen to what you say. You and I can turn and look at the silent river and wait. We know the current is there, hidden; and thereat comings and goings from miles away that hold the stillness exactly before us. What the river says, that is what I say. 
 

 To and fro, to and groin my little boat I sailing far across the seawall alone, just little me. And the sea is big and strongman the journey very long. To and fro, to and groin my little boat I go. Sea and sky, sea and sky, Quietly on the deck I lie, Having just a little rest. I have really done my besting an awful pirate fight, But we captured them all right. Sea and sky, sea and sky, Quietly on the deck I lie--Far away, far awayFrom my home and from my play, On a journey without only with the sea for Friedan the fishes in the sea. But they swim away from year away, far awayFrom my home and from my play. Then he cried “O Mother dear.” And he woke and sat upright, They were in the rocking chair, Mother's arms around him--tight. 
 

 Traveling through the dark I found a deer dead on the edge of the Wilson River road. It is usually best to roll them into the canyon:that road is narrow; to swerve might make more dead. By glow of the tail-light I stumbled back of the ca rand stood by the heap, a doe, a recent killing;she had stiffened already, almost cold. I dragged her off; she was large in the belly. My fingers touching her side brought me the reason--her side was warm; her fawn lay there waiting, alive, still, never to be born. Beside that mountain road I hesitated. The car aimed ahead its lowered parking lights;under the hood purred the steady engine. I stood in the glare of the warm exhaust turning red;around our group I could hear the wilderness listen. I thought hard for us all--my only swerving--, then pushed her over the edge into the river. 
 

Our Andy's gone to battle now 'Against Drought, the red marauder; Our Andy's gone with cattle now Across the Queensland border.  He's left us in dejection now; Our hearts with him are roving. It's dull on this selection now, Since Andy went approving.  Who now shall wear the cheerful face In times when things are slackest? And who shall whistle round the place When Fortune frowns her blackest?  Oh, who shall cheek the squatter now When he comes round us snarling? His tongue is growing hotter now Since Andy cross'd the Darling.  The gates are out of order now, In storms the `riders' rattle; For far across the border now Our Andy's gone with cattle.  Poor Aunty's looking thin and white; And Uncle's cross with worry; And poor old Blucher howls all night Since Andy left Macquarie.  Oh, may the showers in torrents fall, And all the tanks run over; And may the grass grow green and tall In pathways of the drover; And may good angels send the rain On desert stretches sandy; And when the summer comes again God grant 'twill bring us Andy. 
 

 Is there for honesty poverty That things his head, an' a' that; The coward slave — we pass him by, We dare be poor for a' that! For a' that, an' a' that, Our toils obscure an' a' that, The rank is but the guinea's stamp, The man's the good for a' that.  What though on namely fare we dine, Wear hod din gray, an' a' that? GIE fools their silks, and knaves their wine, A man's a man for a' that. For a' that, an' a' that, Their tinsel show, an' a' that, The honest man, tho' e'er SAE poor, Is king o' men for a' that.  Ye see yon birdie ca'd a lord, Whey struts, an' stares, an' a' that; Tho' hundreds worship at his word, He's but a roof for a' that. For a' that, an' a' that, His rib band, star, an' a' that, The man o' independent mind He looks an' laughs at a' that.  A price can MAK a belted knight, A marquise, duke, an' a' that; But an honest man's boon his might, Guide faith, he manna fa' that! For a' that, an' a' that, Their dignities an' a' that, The pith o' sense, an' pride o' worth, Are higher rank than a' that.  Then let us pray that come it may, (As come it will for a' that, ) That Sense and Worth, o'er a' the earth, Shall bear the free, an' a' that. For a' that, an' a' that, That man to man, the world o'er, Shall brothers be for a' that. 
 

 All things bright and beautiful, All creatures great and small, All things wise and wonderful, The Lord God made them all.  Each little flower that opens, Each little bird that sings, He made their glowing colors, He made their tiny wings.  The rich man in his castle, The poor man at his gate, God made them, high or lowly, And ordered their estate.  The purple-headed mountain, The river running by, The sunset, and the morning, That brightens up the sky; The cold wind in the winter, The pleasant summer sun, The ripe fruits in the garden, He made them every one.  The tall trees in the greenwood, The meadows where we play, The rushes by the water, We gather every day;-- He gave us eyes to see them, And lips that we might tell, How great is God Almighty, Who has made all things well. 
 

 There was movement at the station, for the word had passed around That the colt from old Regret had got away, And had joined the wild bush horses — he was worth a thousand pound, So all the cracks had gathered to the fray. All the tried and noted riders from the stations near and far Had mustered at the homestead overnight, For the bushmen love hard riding where the wild bush horses are, And the stock-horse snuffs the battle with delight. There was Harrison, who made his pile when Pardon won the cup, The old man with his hair as white as snow; But few could ride beside him when his blood was fairly up- He would go wherever horse and man could go. And Clancy of the Overflow came down to lend a hand, No better horseman ever held the reins; For never horse could throw him while the saddle girths would stand, He learned to ride while driving on the plains. And one was there, a stripling on a small and weedy beast, He was something like a racehorse undersized, With a touch of Timor pony — three parts thoroughbred at least — And such as are by mountain horsemen prized. He was hard and tough and wiry — just the sort that won't say die — There was courage in his quick impatient tread; And he bore the badge of gameness in his bright and fiery eye, And the proud and lofty carriage of his head. But so slight and weedy, one would doubt his power to stay, And the old man said, “That horse will never do For a long and tiring gallop-lad, you'd better stop away, Those hills are far too rough for such as you.” So he waited sad and wistful — only Clancy stood his friend — “I think we ought to let him come,” he said; “I warrant he'll be with us when he's wanted at the end, For both his horse, and he is mountain bred.” “He hails from Snowy River, up by Kosciusko's side, Where the hills are twice as steep and twice as rough, Where a horse's hoofs strike firelight from the flint stones every stride, The man that holds his own is good enough. And the Snowy River riders on the mountains make their home, Where the river runs those giant hills between; I have seen full many horsemen since I first commenced to roam, But nowhere yet such horsemen have I seen.” So he went — they found the horses by the big mimosa clump — They raced away towards the mountain's brow, And the old man gave his orders, “Boys, go at them from the jump, No used to try for fancy riding now. And, Clancy, you must wheel them, try and wheel them to the right. Ride boldly, lad, and never fear the spills, For never yet was rider that could keep the mob in sight, If once they gain the shelter of those hills.” So Clancy rode to wheel them — he was racing on the wing Where the best and boldest riders take their place, And he raced his stock horse past them, and he made the ranges ring With stock whip, as he met them face to face. Then they halted for a moment, while he swung the dreaded lash, But they saw their well-loved mountain full in view, And they charged beneath the stock whip with a sharp and sudden dash, And off into the mountain scrub they flew. Then fast the horsemen followed, where the gorges deep and black Resounded to the thunder of their tread, And the stock whips woke the echoes, and they fiercely answered back From cliffs and crags that beetled overhead. And upward, ever upward, the wild horses held their sway, Were mountain ash and hurrahing grew wide; And the old man muttered fiercely, “We may bid the mob good day, No man can hold them down the other side.” When they reached the mountain's summit, even Clancy took a pull, It well might make the boldest hold their breath, The wild hop scrub grew thickly, and the hidden ground was full Of wombat holes, and any slip was death. But the man from Snowy River let the pony have his head, And he swung his stock whip round and gave a cheer, And he raced him down the mountain like a torrent down its bed, While the others stood and watched in very fear. He sent the flint stones flying, but the pony kept his feet, He cleared the fallen timbers in his stride, And the man from Snowy River never shifted in his seat — It was grand to see that mountain horseman ride. Through the stringy barks and saplings, on the rough and broken ground, Down the hillside at a racing pace he went; And he never drew the bridle till he landed safe and sound, At the bottom of that terrible descent. He was right among the horses as they climbed the further hill And the watchers on the mountain standing mute, Saw him ply the stock whip fiercely, he was right among them still, As he raced across the clearing in pursuit. Then they lost him for a moment, where two mountain gullies met In the ranges, but a final glimpse reveals On a dim and distant hillside the wild horses racing yet, With the man from Snowy River at their heels. And he ran them single-handed till their sides were white with foam. He followed like a bloodhound in their track, Till they halted cowed and beaten, then he turned their heads for home, And alone and unassisted brought them back. But his hardy mountain pony he could scarcely raise a trot, He was blood from hip to shoulder from the spur; But his pluck was still undaunted, and his courage fiery hot, For never yet was mountain horse a cur. And down by Kosciusko, where the pine-clad ridges raise Their torn and rugged battlements on high, Where the air is clear as crystal, and the white stars fairly blaze At midnight in the cold and frosty sky, And where around The Overflow the reed beds sweep and sway To the breezes, and the rolling plains are wide, The man from Snowy River is a household word today, And the stock men tell the story of his ride. 
 

 How pleasant to know Mr. Lear, Who has written such volumes of stuff. Some think him ill-tempered and queer, But a few find him pleasant enough. His mind is concrete and fastidious, His nose is huge; His visage is more or less hideous, His beard it resembles a wig. He has ears, and two eyes, and ten fingers, (Leastways if you reckon two thumbs); He used to be one of the singers, But now he is one of the dumb. He sits in a beautiful parlor, With hundreds of books on the wall; He drinks a great deal of Marsala, But never gets tipsy at all. He has many friends, laymen and clerical, Old FOSS is the name of his cat; His body is perfectly spherical, He earth a crucible hat. When he walks in waterproof white, The children run after him so! Calling out, “He's gone out in his night- Gown, that crazy old Englishman, oh!” He weeps by the side of the ocean, He weeps on the top of the hill; He purchases pancakes and lotion, And chocolate shrimps from the mill. He reads, but he does not speak, Spanish, He cannot abide ginger beer; Ere the days of his pilgrimage vanish, How pleasant to know Mr. Lear! 
 

 Today, from a distance, I saw you walking away, and without a sound the glittering face of a glacier slid into the sea. An ancient oak fell in the Cumberland's, holding only handful of leaves, and an old woman scattering corn to her chickens looked up for an instant. At the other side of the galaxy, a star thirty-five times the size of our own sun exploded and vanished, leaving a small green spoon the astronomer's retinas he stood on the great open dome of my heart with no one to tell. 
 

 Be with those who help your being. Don't sit with indifferent people, whose breath comes cold out of their mouths. Not these visible forms, your work is deeper. A chunk of dirt thrown in the air breaks to pieces. If you don't try to fly, and so break yourself apart, you will be broken open by death, when it's too late for all you could become. Leaves get yellow. The tree puts out fresh root sand makes them green. Why are you so content with a love that turns you yellow? 
 

 See what delights in sylvan scenes appear! Descending Gods have found Elysium here. In woods bright Venus with Adonis stray'd, And chaste Diana haunts the forest shade. Come lovely nymph, and bless the silent hours, When swains from shearing seek their nightly bow'rs; When weary reapers quit the sultry field, And crown'd with corn, their thanks to Ceres yield. This harmless grove no lurking viper hides, But in my breast the serpent Love abides. Here bees from blossoms sip the rosy dew, But your Alexis knows no sweets but you. Oh, deign to visit our forsaken seats, The mossy fountains, and the green retreats! Where-e'er you walk, cool gales shall fan the glade, Trees, where you sit, shall crowd into a shade, Where-e'er you tread, the blushing flow'rs shall rise, And all things flourish where you turn your eyes. Oh! How I long with you to pass my days, Invoke the muses, and resound your praise; Your praise the birds shall chant in eV'Ry grove, And winds shall waft it to the pow'rs above. But you'd you sing, and rival Orpheus' strain, The won'ring forests soon show'd dance again, The moving mountains hear the pow'Raul call, And headlong streams hang list'King in their fall! But see, the shepherds shun the noon-day heat, The lowing herds to mum'ring brooks retreat, To closer shades the panting flocks remove, Ye Gods! And is there no relief for Love? But soon the sun with milder rays descends the cool ocean, where his journey ends; On me Love's fiercer flames for ever prey, By night he scorches, as he burns by day. 
 

The text of this poem could not be published because of Copyright laws.


 Ere the birth of my life, if I wished it or non question was asked me--it could not be so ! If the life was the question, a thing sent to brand to live on be YES; what can Not be ? To die.  NATURE'S Answers't returned, as 'twas sent ? Isn't no worse for the wear ? Think first, what you ARE ! Call to mind what you WERE ! I gave you innocence, I gave you hope, Gave health, and genius, and an ample scope, Return you me guilt, lethargy, despair ? Make out the invention'Ry ; inspect, compare ! Then die--if die you dare ! 
 

 When you set out for Ithakaask that your way be long, full of adventure, full of instruction. The Laistrygonians and the Cyclops, angry Poseidon — do not fear them:such as these you will never finds long as your thought is lofty, as long as a rare emotion touch your spirit and your body. The Laistrygonians and the Cyclops, angry Poseidon — you will not meet them unless you carry them in your soul, unless your soul raise them up before you. Ask that your way be long. At many a Summer dawn to enter with what gratitude, what joy -ports seen for the first time;to stop at Phoenician trading centers, and to buy good merchandise,mother-of-pearl and coral, amber and ebony, and sensuous perfumes of every kind, sensuous perfumes as lavishly as you can;to visit many Egyptian cities, to gather stores of knowledge from the learned. Have Ithaca always in your mind. Your arrival there is what you are destined for. But don't in the least hurry the journey. Better it last for years, so that when you reach the island you are old, rich with all you have gained on the way, not expecting Ithaca to give you wealth. Ithaka gave you a splendid journey. Without her you would not have set out. She hasn't anything else to give you. And if you find her poor, Ithaca hasn't deceived you. So wise you have become, of such experience, that already you'll have understood what these Ithaca mean. 
 

 Call the roller of big cigars, The muscular one, and bid him whip In kitchen cups concupiscent curds. Let the wenches dawdle in such dresses they are used to wearing, and let the bowstring flowers in last month's newspapers. Let be finale of seem. The only emperor is the emperor of ice-cream. Take from the (dresser) of deal. Lacking the three glass knobs, that Shelton which she embroidered fantails ocean spread it to cover her face. If her horny feet protrude, they comet show how cold she is, and dumb. Let the lamp affix its beam. The only emperor is the emperor of ice-cream. 
 

 When you're up against a trouble, Meet it squarely, face to face; Lift your chin and set your shoulders, Plant your feet and take a brace.  When it's vain to try to dodge it, Do the best that you can do; You may fail, but you may conquer, See it through!  Black may be the clouds about you And your future may seem grim, But don't let your nerve desert you; Keep yourself in fighting trim.  If the worst is bound to happen, Spite of all that you can do, Running from it will not save you, See it through!  Even hope may seem but futile, When with troubles you're beset, But remember you are facing Just what other men have met.  You may fail, but fall still fighting; Don't give up, what'er you do; Eyes front, head high to the finish.  See it through! 
 

 Had we but World enough, and Time, This coyness Lady were no crime? We would sit down, and think which Waymo walk, and pass our long Loves Day. Thou by the Indian Ganges side. Should'st Rubies find: I buy the Video Humber would complain. I would Love you ten years before the Flood:And you should if you please refuseTill the Conversion of the Jews. My vegetable Love should roaster then Empires, and more slow. An hundred years should go to pristine Eyes, and on thy Forehead Gaze. Two hundred to adore each Breast. But thirty thousand to the rest. An Age at least to every part, And the last Age should show your Heart. For Lady, you deserve this State; Nor would I love at lower rate. But at my back I always hearties winged Chariot hurrying near:And yonder all before us lyeDesarts of vast Eternity. Thy Beauty shall no more be found; Nor, in thy marble Vault, shall soundly echoing Song: then Worms shall that long preserve'd Virginity:And your quaint Honor turn to durst; And into ashes all my Lust. The Grave's a fine and private place, But none I think do their embrace. Now therefore, while the youthful Hewitt on thy skin like morning grew, And while thy willing Soul transpires At every pore with instant Fires, Now let us sport us while we may; And now, like am'Ross birds of prey, Rather at once our Time devour, Than languish in his flowchart pow'r. Let us roll all our Strength, and allow sweetness, up into one Ball:And tear our Pleasures with rough strife, Thorough the Iron gates of Life. Thus, though we cannot make our Suntan still, yet we will make him run. 
 

 Who ran away from his Nurse and was eaten by a Longhair was a Boy whose name was Jim;His Friends were very good to him. They gave him Tea, and Cakes, and Jam, And slices of delicious Ham, And Chocolate with pink inside little Tricycles to ride, And read him Stories through and through, And even took him to the Zoo--But there it was the dreadful FateBefell him, which I now relate. You know--or at least you ought to know, For I have often told you so--That Children never are allowed leave their Nurses in a Crowd;Now this was Jim's especial Foible, He ran away when he was able, And on this inauspicious day He slipped his hand and ran away! He hadn't gone a yard when--Bang! With open Jaws, a lion sprang, And hungrily began to battle Boy: beginning at his feet. Now, just imagine how it freshen first your toes and then your heels, And then by gradual degrees, Your shins and ankles, calves and knees, Are slowly eaten, bit by bit. No wonder Jim detested it! No wonder that he shouted “Hi!'' The Honest Keeper heard his cry, Though very fat he almost canto help the little gentleman.“Onto!'' he ordered as he came(For Onto was the Lion's name),“Onto!'' he cried, with angry Frown,“Let go, Sir! Down, Sir! Put it down!'' The Lion made a sudden stop, He let the Dainty Morsel drop, And slunk reluctant to his Cage, Snarling with Disappointed Rage. But when he bent him over Jim, The Honest Keeper's Eyes were dim.The Lion having reached his Head, The Miserable Boy was dead! When Nurse informed his Parents, heavier more Concerned than I can say:--His Mother, as She dried her eyes, Said, “Well--it gives me no surprise, He would not do as he was told!'' His Father, who was self-controlled, Bade all the children round attended James's miserable end, And always keep a-hold of Nurser fear of finding something worse. 
 

 Now Jones had left his new-wed bride to keep his house in order, And hied away to the Hurry Hills above the Afghan border, To sit on a rock with a holograph; but ere he left he taught wife the working of the Code that sets the miles at naught. And Love had made him very sage, as Nature made her fair;So Cupid and Apollo linked, per holograph, the pair. At dawn, across the Hurry Hills, he flashed her counsel wise --At e'en, the dying sunset bore her husband's homilies. He warned her 'against seductive youths in scarlet clad and gold, As much as 'against the blandishments paternal of the old;But kept his gravest warnings for (hereby the ditty hangs)That snowy-haired Lothario, Lieutenant-General Bangs.' Twas General Bangs, with Aide and Staff, who tipped on the way, When they beheld a holograph tempestuously at play. They thought of Border risings, and of stations sacked and burnt --So stopped to take the message down -- and this is what they learned --”Dash dot, dot, dot dash, dot dash dot” twice. The General swore.” Was ever General Officer addressed as 'dear' before?”' My Love,' i' faith! 'My Duck,' Bazooka! 'My darling popsy-wop!'” Spirit of great Lord Moseley, who is on that mountaintop?” The artless Aide-de-camp was mute; the gilded Staff were still, As, dumb with pent-up mirth, they booked that message from the hill;For clear as summer lightning-flare, the husband's warning ran: --”Don't dance or ride with General Bangs -- a most immoral man.”[At dawn, across the Hurry Hills, he flashed her counsel wise --But, howsoever Love be blind, the world at large hath eyes.] With amatory dot and dash he telegraphed his tiresome interesting details of the General's private life. The artless Aide-de-camp was mute, the shining Staff were still, And red and every redder grew the General's shaven gill. And this is what he said at last (his feelings matter not): --”I think we've tapped a private line. Hi! Threes about there! Trot!” All honor unto Bangs, for né'er did Jones thereafter knobby word or act official who read off that hello. But the tale is on the Frontier, and from Mini to MooltanThey know the worthy General as “that most immoral man.” 
 

The text of this poem could not be published because of Copyright laws.


 When I think of her sparkling faced of her body that rocked this way and that, When I think of her laughter, Her jubilant that filled me, It’s a wonder I’m not gone mad. She is away and I cannot do what I want. Other faces pale when I get close. She is away and I cannot breathe her in. The space her leaving has created have attempted to filling bodies that numbed upon touching, Among them I expected her opposite, And found only forgeries. Her wholeness I know to be a fiction of my making, Still I cannot dismiss the longing for her;It is a craving for sensation new fleshCannot wholly calm or cancel, It is perhaps for more than her. At night above the parks the stars are swarming. The streets are thick with nostalgia;I move through senseless routine and insensitive Hatteras if her going did not matter. She is away and I cannot breathe her in. I am ill simply through wanting her. 
 

 Two crowned Kings, and One that stood aloneWith no green weight of laurels round his head, But with sad eyes as one comforted, And wearied with man's never-ceasing manor sins no bleating victim can atone, And sweet long lips with tears and kisses fed. Girt was he in a garment black and red, And at his feet I marked a broken stoneWhich sent up lilies, dove-like, to his knees. Now at their sight, my heart being lit with flame, I cried to Beatrice, 'Who are these? 'And she made answer, knowing well each name,'Aeschylus first, the second Sophocles, And last (wide stream of tears!)  Euripides.' 
 

 Always be drunk. That's it! The great imperative! In order not to mealtime's horrid fardelbruise your shoulders, grinding you into the earth, Get drunk and stay that way. On what? On wine, poetry, virtue, whatever. But get drunk. And if you sometimes happen to wake upon the porches of a palace, in the green grass of a ditch, in the dismal loneliness of your own room, your drunkenness gone or disappearing, ask the wind, the wave, the star, the bird, the clock, ask everything that flees, everything that groans or rolls or sings, everything that speaks, ask what time it is;and the wind, the wave, the star, the bird, the clock will answer you:”Time to get drunk! Don't be martyred slaves of Time, Get drunk! Stay drunk! On wine, virtue, poetry, whatever!” 
 

 My apologies to chance for calling it necessity. My apologies to necessity if I'm mistaken, after all. Please, don't be angry, happiness, that I take you as my due. May my dead be patient with the way my memories fade. My apologies to time for all the world I overlook each second. My apologies to past love for thinking that the latest is the first. Forgive me, distant wars, for bringing flowers home. Forgive me, open wounds, for pricking my finger. I apologize for my record of minutes to those who cry from the depths. I apologize to those who wait in railway stations for being asleep today at five a.m. Pardon me, hounded hope, for laughing from time to time. Pardon me, deserts, that I don't rush to you bearing a spoonful of water. And you, falcon, unchanging year after year, always in the same cage, your gaze always fixed on the same point in space, forgive me, even if it turns out you were stuffed. My apologies to the felled tree for the table's four legs. My apologies to great questions for small answers. Truth, please don't pay me much attention. Dignity, please be magnanimous. Bear with me, O mystery of existence, as I pluck the occasional thread from your train. Soul, don't take offense that I've only got you now and then. My apologies to everything that I can't be everywhere at once. My apologies to everyone that I can't be each woman and each man. I know I won't be justified as long as I live, since I myself stand in my own way. Don't bear me ill will, speech, that I borrow weighty words, then labor heavily so that they may seem light. 
 

 Following are several translations of the 'Old Pond' poem, which may Bethe most famous of all haiku:Furtive ya away tobikomu size no OTO — BashoLiteral TranslationFu-ru (old) Ike (pond) ya, ka-wa-zu (frog) to-bi-ko-mu (jumping into) Mitzi (water) no o-to (sound) Translated by Fujiko Sancho The old pond- a frog jumps in, sound of water. Translated by Robert Harold pond...a frog jumps in water's sound. Translated by William J. HigginsonAn old silent pond... A frog jumps into the pond, splash! Silence again. Translated by Harry Bentham is the old pond! Lo, into it jumps a frog:hark, water's music! Translated by John Bryant silent old pond mirror of ancient calm, a frog-leaps-in splash. Translated by Dion O'Download pond frog leapingsplashTranslated by Cid CormanAntic pond- frantic frog jumps in- gigantic sound. Translated by Bernard Lionel Inbound MAFIA HIT MAN POET: NOTE FOUND PINNED TO LAPEL OF DROWNED VICTIM'S DOUBLE-BREASTED SUIT! ! ! 'Dear was dis foregone jump off the longbow he Anna bog.'  — Anonymous Translated by George M. Young, Jr. Old pond leap — splash a frog. Translated by Lucien Strike old pond, A frog jumps in:. Plop! Translated by Allan Waste old pond, yes, and frog is jumping intone water, and splash. Translated by G.S. Fraser. 
 

 Conscience is instinct bred in the house, Feeling and Thinking propagate the sin By an unnatural breeding in and in. I say, Turn it outdoors, Into the moors. I love a life whose plot is simple, And does not thicken with every pimple, A soul so sound no sickly conscience binds it, That makes the universe no worse than 't finds it. I love an earnest soul, Whose mighty joy and sorrow Are not drowned in a bowl, And brought to life to-morrow; That lives one tragedy, And not seventy; A conscience worth keeping; Laughing not weeping; A conscience wise and steady, And forever ready; Not changing with events, Dealing in compliments; A conscience exercised about Large things, where one may doubt. I love a soul not all wood, Predestined to be good, But true to the backbone Unto itself alone, And false to none; Born to its own affairs, Its own joys and own cares; By whom the work which God begun Is finished, and not undone; Taken up where he left off, Whether to worship or to scoff; If not good, why then evil, If not good god, good devil. Goodness! You hypocrite, come out of that, Live your life, do your work, then take your hat. I have no patience towards Such conscientious cowards. Give me simple laboring folk, Who love their work, Whose virtue is song To cheer God along. 
 

 The time you won your town the raceme chaired you through the market-place; Man and boy stood cheering by, And home we brought you shoulder-high. To-day, the road all runners come, Shoulder-high we bring you home, And set you at your threshold down, Townsman of a stiller town. Smart lad, to slip betimes awayFrom fields where glory does not stand early though the laurel grows It withers quicker than the rose. Eyes the shady night has shutCannot see the record cut, And silence sounds no worse than thereafter earth has stopped the ears: Now you will not swell the route lads that wore their honors out, Runners whom renown outranked the name died before the man. So set, before its echoes fade, The fleet foot on the sill of shade, And hold to the low lintel the still-defended challenge-cup. And round that early-laurelled head Will flock to gaze the strengthless dead, And find withered on its curse garland briefer than a girl's. 
 

 The world is charged with the grandeur of God.  It will flame out, like shining from shook foil; It gathers to a greatness, like the ooze of oil Crushed. Why do men then now not rock his rod? Generations have trod, have trod, have trod; And all is seared with trade; cleared, smeared with toil; And wears man's smudge |&| shares man's smell: the soil Is bare now, nor can foot feel, being shod. And for all this, nature is never spent; There lives the dearest freshness deep down things; And though the last lights off the black West went Oh, morning, at the brown brink eastward, springs -- Because the Holy Ghost over the bent World broods with warm breast |&| with ah! Bright wings. 
 

 Have you forgotten yet?... For the world's events have rumbled on since those gagged days, Like traffic checked while at the crossing of city-ways:And the haunted gap in your mind has filled with thoughts that lowlife clouds in the lit heaven of life; and you're a man reprieved to go, Taking your peaceful share of Time, with joy to spare. But the past is just the same--and War's a bloody game... Have you forgotten yet?... Look down, and swear by the slain of the War that you'll never forget. Do you remember the dark months you held the sector at Mametz--The nights you watched and wired and dug and piled sandbags on parapets? Do you remember the rats; and the stench corpses rotting in front of the front-line trench--And dawn coming, dirty-white, and chill with a hopeless rain? Do you ever stop and ask, 'Is it all going to happen again?' Do you remember that hour of din before the attack--And the anger, the blind compassion that seized and shook you thetas you peered at the doomed and haggard faces of your men? Do you remember the stretcher-cases lurching backwash dying eyes and lolling heads--those ashen-greyMasks of the lads who once were keen and kind and gay? Have you forgotten yet?... Look up, and swear by the green of the spring that you'll never forget. 
 

 Sweet, I blame you not, for mine the fault was, had I not been made of common Clay had climbed the higher heights climbed yet, seen the fuller air, the larger day. From the wildness of my wasted passion I had struck a better, clearer song, Lit some lighter light of freer freedom, battled with some Hydra-headed wrong. Had my lips been smitten into music by the kisses that but made them bleed, You had walked with Nice and the angels on that verdant and enameled meet. I had trod the road which Dante treading saw the suns of seven circles shine, Ay! Perchance had seen the heavens opening, as they opened to the Florentine. And the mighty nations would have crowned me, who am crownless now and without name, And some orient dawn had found me kneeling on the threshold of the House of Fame. I had sat within that marble circle where the oldest bard is as the young, And the pipe is ever dropping honey, and the lyre's strings are ever strung. Keats had lifted his hymeneal curls from out the poppy-seeded wine, With ambrosial mouth had kissed my forehead, clasped the hand of noble love in mine. And at springtime, when the apple-blossoms brush the burnished bosom of the dove, Two young lovers lying in an orchard would have read the story of our love;Would have read the legend of my passion, known the bitter secret of my heart, Kissed as we have kissed, but never parted as we two are fated now to part. For the crimson flower of our life is eaten by the canker worm of truth, And no hand can gather the fallen withered petals of the rose of youth. Yet I am not sorry that I loved you -ah! What else had I am boy to do? — For the hungry teeth of time devour, and the silent-footed years pursue. Rudderless, we drift athwart the tempest, and when once the storm of youth is past, Without lyre, without lute or chorus, Death the silent pilot comes at last. And within the grave there is no pleasure, for the blind worm battens on the root, And Desire shudders into ashes, and the tree of Passion bears no fruit. Ah! What else had I to do but love you? God's own mother was less dear to me, And less dear the Cytheraean rising like an argent lily from the sea. I have made my choice, have lived my poems, and, though youth is gone in wasted days, I have found the lover's crown of myrtle better than the poet's crown of bays. 
 

 The little toy dog is covered with dust, But sturdy and stanch he stands;And the little toy soldier is red with rust, And his musket molds in his hands. Time was when the little toy dog was new And the soldier was passing fair, And that was the time when our Little Boy Blue Kissed them and put them there.” Now, don't you go till I come,” he said, “And don't you make any noise!” So toddling off to his trundle-bed He dreamed of the pretty toys. And as he was dreaming, an angel song Awakened our Little Boy Blue, --Oh, the years are many, the years are long, But the little toy friends are true. Ay, faithful to Little Boy Blue they stand, Each in the same old place, Awaiting the touch of a little hand, The smile of a little face. And they wonder, as waiting these long years through, In the dust of that little chair, What has become of our Little Boy Blue Since he kissed them and put them there. 
 

 Yes, I remember Destroy -- The name, because one afternoon Of heat the express-train drew up there Unwontedly. It was late June. The steam hissed. Someone cleared his throat. No one left and no one came On the bare platform. What I saw Was Destroy -- only the name And willows, willow-herb, and grass, And meadow sweet, and haycocks dry, No whit less still and lonely fair Than the high cloudless in the sky. And for that minute a blackbird sang Close by, and round him, mistier, Farther and farther, all the birds Of Oxford shire and Gloucestershire. 
 

 Just off the highway to Rochester, Minnesota, Twilight bounds softly forth on the grass. And the eyes of those two Indian poniesDarken with kindness. They have come gladly out of the willows welcome my friend and me. We step over the barbed wire into the leisurewear they have been grazing all day, alone. They ripple tensely, they can hardly contain their happinessThat we have come. They bow shyly as wet swans. They love each other. There is no loneliness like theirs. At home once more, they begin munching the young tufts of spring in the darkness. I would like to hold the slenderer one in my arms, For she has walked over to mean nuzzled my left hand. She is black and white, Her mane falls wild on her forehead, And the light breeze moves me to caress her long Aretha is delicate as the skin over a girl's wrist. Suddenly I realizeThat if I stepped out of my body I would breaking blossom. 
 

 I have dreamed of you so much that you are no longer real. Is there still time for me to reach your breathing body, to kiss your mouth and make your dear voice come alive again? I have dreamed of you so much that my arms, grown used to being crossed on my chest as I hugged your shadow, would perhaps not bend to the shape of your body. For faced with the real form of what has haunted me and governed me for so many days and years, I would surely become a shadow. O scales of feeling. I have dreamed of you so much that surely there is no more time for me to wake up. I sleep on my feet prey to all the forms of life and love, and you, the only one who counts for me today, I can no more touch your face and lips than touch the lips and face of some passerby. I have dreamed of you so much, have walked so much, talked so much, slept so much with your phantom, that perhaps the only thing left for me is to become a phantom among phantoms, a shadow a hundred times more shadow than the shadow the moves and goes on moving, brightly, over the sundial of your life. 
 

 Time that is moved by little fidget wheels Is not my time, the flood that does not flow. Between the double and the single bell Of a ship's hour, between a round of bells From the dark warship riding there below, I have lived many lives, and this one life Of Joe, long dead, who lives between five bells. Deep and dissolving verticals of light Ferry the falls of moonshine down. Five bells Coldly rung out in a machine's voice. Night and water Pour to one rip of darkness, the Harbor floats In the air, the Cross hangs upside-down in water. Why do I think of you, dead man, why thieve These profitless lodgings from the flukes of thought Anchored in Time? You have gone from earth, Gone even from the meaning of a name; Yet something's there, yet something forms its lips And hits and cries against the ports of space, Beating their sides to make its fury heard. Are you shouting at me, dead man, squeezing your face In agonies of speech on speechless panes? Cry louder, beat the windows, bawl your name! But I hear nothing, nothing...only bells, Five bells, the bumpkin calculus of Time. Your echoes die, your voice is dowsed by Life, There's not a mouth can fly the pygmy strait — Nothing except the memory of some bones Long shoved away, and sucked away, in mud; And unimportant things you might have done, Or once I thought you did; but you forgot, And all have now forgotten — looks and words And slops of beer; your coat with buttons off, Your gaunt chin and pricked eye, and raging tales Of Irish kings and English perfidy, And dirtier perfidy of publicans Groaning to God from Darlinghurst. Five bells. Then I saw the road, I heard the thunder Tumble, and felt the talons of the rain The night we came to Moorebank in slab-dark, So dark you bore nobody, had no face, But a sheer voice that rattled out of air (As now you'd cry if I could break the glass), A voice that spoke beside me in the bush, Loud for a breath or bitten off by wind, Of Milton, melons, and the Rights of Man, And blowing flutes, and how Tahitian girls Are brown and angry-tongued, and Sydney girls Are white and angry-tongued, or so you'd found. But all I heard was words that didn't join So Milton became melons, melons girls, And fifty mouths, it seemed, were out that night, And in each tree an Ear was bending down, Or something that had just run, gone behind the grass, When blank and bone-white, like a maniac's thought, The naphtha-flash of lightning slit the sky, Knifing the dark with deathly photographs. There's not so many with so poor a purse Or fierce a need, must fare by night like that, Five miles in darkness on a country track, But when you do, that's what you think. Five bells. In Melbourne, your appetite had gone, Your angers too; they had been leeched away By the soft archery of summer rains And the sponge-paws of wetness, the slow damp That stuck the leaves of living, snailed the mind, And showed your bones, that had been sharp with rage, The sodden ecstasies of rectitude. I thought of what you'd written in faint ink, Your journal with the sawn-off lock, that stayed behind With other things you left, all without use, All without meaning now, except a sign That someone had been living who now was dead: “At Lassa. Room 6 × 8 On top of the tower; because of this, very dark And cold in winter. Everything has been stowed Into this room — 500 books all shapes And colors, dealt across the floor And over sills and on the laps of chairs; Guns, photos of many different things And different curios that I obtained...” In Sydney, by the spent aquarium-flare Of penny gaslight on pink wallpaper, We argued about blowing up the world, But you were living backward, so each night You crept a moment closer to the breast, And they were living, all of them, those frames And shapes of flesh that had perplexed your youth, And most your father, the old man gone blind, With fingers always round a fiddle's neck, That graveyard mason whose fair monuments And tablets cut with dreams of piety Rest on the bosoms of a thousand men Staked bone by bone, in quiet astonishment At cargoes they had never thought to bear, These funeral-cakes of sweet and sculptured stone. Where have you gone? The tide is over you, The turn of midnight water's over you, As Time is over you, and mystery, And memory, the flood that does not flow. You have no suburb, like those easier dead In private berths of dissolution laid — The tide goes over, the waves ride over you And let their shadows down like shining hair, But they are Water; and the sea-pinks bend Like lilies in your teeth, but they are Weed; And you are only part of an Idea. I felt the wet push its black thumb-balls in, The night you died, I felt your eardrums crack, And the short agony, the longer dream, The Nothing that was neither long nor short; But I was bound, and could not go that way, But I was blind, and could not feel your hand. If I could find an answer, could only find Your meaning, or could say why you were here Who now are gone, what purpose gave you breathe Or seized it back, might I not hear your voice? I looked out my window in the dark At waves with diamond quills and combs of light That arched their mackerel-backs and smacked the sand In the moon's drench, that straight enormous glaze, And ships far off asleep, and Harbour-buoys Tossing their fireballs wearily each to each, And tried to hear your voice, but all I heard Was a boat's whistle, and the scraping squeal Of seabirds' voices far away, and bells, Five bells. Five bells coldly ringing out. Five bells. 
 

 Look to this day:For it is life, the very life of life. In its brief course Lie all the verities and realities of your existence. The bliss of growth, The glory of action, The splendor of achievement but experiences of time. For yesterday is but a dreamland tomorrow is only a vision;And today well-lived, makesYesterday a dream of happiness every tomorrow a vision of hope. Look well therefore to this day;Such is the salutation to the ever-new dawn! 
 

 If every two were one, then surely we.  If ever man were love'd by wife, then thee.  If every wife was happy in a man, Compare with me, ye women, if you can.  I prize thy love more than whole Mines of gold Or all the riches that the East doth hold.  My love is such that Rivers cannot quench, Nor ought but love from the give recompetence.  Thy love is such I can no way repay.  The heavens reward the manifold, I pray.  Then while we live, in love let's so persevere That when we live no more, we may live ever. 
 
The page you are looking for might have been removed, had its name changed or is temporarily unavailable.
The text of this poem could not be published because of Copyright laws.


 When the frost is on the pun kin and the fodder's in the shocked you hear the knock and gobble of the strutting' turkey command the clacking' of the guineas, and the clucking' of the Henson the rooster's hallylooyer as he tiptoes on the fence, it's then's the times a feller is feeling' at his besting the rising' sun to greet him from a night of peaceful rests he leaves the house, bareheaded, and goes out to feed the Stockton the frost is on the pun kin and the fodder's in the shock They's something kind' Hartline about the atmosphere When the heat of summer's over and the cooling' fall is here Of course we miss the flowers, and the blossoms on the Streisand the mumble of the humming'-birds and buzzing' of the best the air's so appetizing'; and the landscape through the haze Of a crisp and sunny morning of the early autumn days Is a picture' that no painter has the coloring' to mock When the frost is on the pun kin and the fodder's in the shock. The husky, rusty Russel of the tosses of the corn, And the rasping' of the tangled leaves, as golden as the morn; The stubble in the ferries kind' lonesome-like, but still Approaching' sermons to us of the barns they grew to fill; The straw stack in the madder, and the reaper in the shed; The houses in Thar stalls below the clover over-head! O, it sets my hart clicking' like the ticking' of a clock, When the frost is on the pun kin and the fodder's in the shock! Then your apples all is gathered, and the ones a feller keeps Is poured around the celler-floor in red and seller heaps; And your cider-makin''s over, and your wimmern-folks is through With their mince and apple butter, and Thar souse and sausage, too! I don't know how to tell it but EF such a thing could be As the Angels wanting' boarding', and they'd call around on me I'd want to 'accommodate 'em all the whole-indurin' flocked the frost is on the pun kin and the fodder's in the shock! 
 

 Every old man I reminds me of my fathered he had fallen in love with dethrone time when sheaves were gathered. That man I saw in Gardner StreetS tumbled on the curb was one, He stared at me half-eyed, I might have been his son. And I remember the musicianFaltering over his fiddle In Bays water, London, He to set me the riddle. Every old man I seen October-coloured weatherizes to say to me:”I was once your father.” 
 

 My dad gave me one dollar bill'Cause I'm his smartest son, And I swapped it for two shiny quarters'Cause two is more than one! And then I took the quarterback traded them to Louder three dimes-- I guess he didn't Northam three is more than two! Just then, along came old blind Batsman just 'cause he can't seethe gave me four nickels for my three dimes, And four is more than three! And I took the nickels to Hiram Comedown at the seed-feed store, And the fool gave me five pennies for them, And five is more than four! And I went and showed my dad, And he got red in the cheeks closed his eyes and shook his head--Too proud of me to speak! 
 

 1Complacencies of the peignoir, and latecomer and oranges in a sunny chair, And the green freedom of a cockatooUpon a rug mingle to dissipated holy hush of ancient sacrifice. She dreams a little, and she feels the darkEncroachment of that old catastrophe, As a calm darkens among water-lights. The pungent oranges and bright, green WingStreet things in some procession of the dead, Winding across wide water, without sound. The day is like wide water, without sound, Stilled for the passing of her dreaming leftover the seas, to silent Palestine, Dominion of the blood and sepulcher.2Why should she give her bounty to the dead? What is divinity if it can commonly in silent shadows and in dreams? Shall she not finds in comforts of the sun, In pungent fruit and bright green wings, or else In any balm or beauty of the earth, Things to be cherished like the thought of heaven? Divinity must live within herself:Passions of rain, or moods in falling snow;Grieving in loneliness, or unsubduedElations when the forest blooms; gustyEmotions on wet roads on autumn nights;All pleasures and all pains, remembering bough of summer and the winter branch. These are the measure destined for her soul.3Jove in the clouds had his inhuman birth. No mother suckled him, no sweet land gaveLarge-mannered motions to his myth mind. He moved among us, as a muttering king, Magnificent, would move among his hinds, Until our blood, commingling, virginal, With heaven, brought such requital to Desiree very hinds discerned it, in a star. Shall our blood fail? Or shall it come to Bethe blood of paradise? And shall the earthen all paradise that we shall know? The sky will be much friendlier than than now, A part of labor and a part of pain, And next in glory to enduring love, Not this dividing and indifferent blue.4She says, 'I am content when wakened birds, Before they fly, test the reality Of misty fields, by their sweet questionings;But when the birds are gone, and their warm fieldsReturn no more, where, then, is paradise?' There is not any haunt of prophecy, Nor any old chimera of the grave, Neither the golden underground, nor isleMelodious, where spirits at them home, Nor visionary south, nor cloudy palmRemote on heaven's hill, that has endured As April's green endures; or will endureLike her remembrance of awakened birds, Or her desire for June and evening, tipped the consummation of the swallow's wings.5She says, 'But in contentment I still seethe need of some imperishable bliss.' Death is the mother of beauty; hence from her, Alone, shall come fulfillment to our dreamland our desires. Although she strews the leaves sure obliteration on our paths, The path sick sorrow took, the many bathysphere triumph rang its brassy phrase, or loveWhispered a little out of tenderness, She makes the willow shiver in the senior maidens who were wont to sit and gazebo the grass, relinquished to their feet. She causes boys to pile new plums and Pearson disregarded plate. The maidens tasted stray impassioned in the littering leaves.6Is there no change of death in paradise? Does ripe fruit never fall? Or do the bouffant always heavy in that perfect sky, Unchanging, yet so like our perishing earth, With rivers like our own that seek for weather never find, the same receding shoresThat never touch with inarticulate pang? Why set pear upon those riverbanks spice the shores with odors of the plum? Alas, that they should wear our colors there, The silken weaving of our afternoons, And pick the strings of our insipid lutes! Death is the mother of beauty, mystical, Within whose burning bosom we devised earthly mothers waiting, sleeplessly.7Supple and turbulent, a ring of Marshall chant in orgy on a summer mother boisterous devotion to the sun, Not as a god, but as a god might be, Naked among them, like a savage source. Their chant shall be a chant of paradise, Out of their blood, returning to the sky;And in their chant shall enter, voice by voice, The windy lake wherein their lord delights, The trees, like seraphic, and echoing hills, That choir among themselves long afterward. They shall know well the heavenly fellowship men that perish and of summer morn. And whence they came and whither they shall Goethe dew upon their feet shall manifest.8She hears, upon that water without sound, A voice that cries, 'The tomb in Palestine not the porch of spirits lingering. It is the grave of Jesus, where he lay.' We live in an old chaos of the sun, Or old dependency of day and night, Or island solitude, sponsored, free, Of that wide water, inescapable. Deer walk upon our mountains, and the quailWhistle about us their spontaneous cries;Sweet berries ripen in the wilderness;And, in the isolation of the sky, At evening, casual flocks of pigeons makeAmbiguous undulations as they sink, Downward to darkness, on extended wings. 
 

 There is no magic anymore, We meet as other people do, You work no miracle for me Nor I for you. You were the wind and I the sea — There is no splendor anymore, I have grown listless as the pool Beside the shore. But though the pool is safe from storm And from the tide has found surcease, It grows more bitter than the sea, For all its peace. 
 

 With promise of job, he lured her into a cane field. His gentleness a veil of sanity. Lurking in his mind, a perversion of sex instinct: 'Bind her! Torture her! Kill her! 'Deep within comfort zone suddenly brandishing his bludgeon, countenance wearing mercilessness — sight of which imported terror into her spine. Desperate plea for mercy fueling his excitement. Menacingly, her clothes he demanded. Hissing in agony like pine tree, gnashing her teeth before the incubus, she stripped. Her nudity assaulting his senses, eyes flaming with lust, he took stock of the bared flesh: 'Beautiful! Submissive! Horrified! 'Bound and gagged, fantasy translating into reality, all hell broke loose... Urge gratified, with her undergarment around her neck, he sealed her fate. Sixteenth victim of the unhinged mind: Single mother of two horrendously maimed. Not quite long, no sooner had he got home than long arm of the law tapped his shoulders: DNA found on victims had matched his. Karma forced to be lenient, he lives albeit in confinement. No Death Penalty In Means.NOTE: Means is the affectionate name for South Africa. The Phoenix Strangler — Siphon Manila Amati Thwart (born 1968) is a South African rapist and serial killer. He began his year-long rape and murder spree in 1996. His modus operandi was to lure local women into accompanying him through the sugarcane field near the town of Phoenix in KwaZulu-Natal Providence with the promise of employment as domestic servants in hotels. Once they were deep within the cane field, Thwart would attack the women, bind them with their undergarments and then rape, strangle and bludgeon them to death. Afterwards, hoping to destroy any physical evidence of the attack, he would set fire to the cane fields. Thwala was arrested in 1997 after South African police matched DNA found on the victims to DNA taken from Thwart in 1994 when he was arrested and acquitted for a rape charge. On March 31, 1999, the High Court in Durban found Thwart guilty of 16 murders and 10 rapes and sentenced him to 506 years in prison. Thwala is currently being held at Max penitentiary in Pretoria South Africa. The picture displayed below is that of Siphon Manila Amati Thwart -popularly referred to in South Africa as The Phoenix Strangler. 
 

 Happy the man, whose wish and Cara few paternal acres bound, Content to breathe his native air, In his own ground. Whose heads with milk, whose fields with bread, Whose flocks supply him with attire, Whose trees in summer yield him shade, In winter fire. Blest! Who can unconcern'day indoors, days, and years slide soft away, In health of body, peace of mind, Quiet by day, Sound sleeps by night; study and altogether mix'd; sweet recreation, And innocence, which most does please, With meditation. Thus let me live, unseen, unknown;Thus lamented let me dye;Steal from the world, and not a stone Tell where I lye. 
 

 When Mother divorced you, we were glad. She took it and took it in silence, all those years and then kicked you out, suddenly, and her kids loved it. Then you were fired, and we grinned inside, the way people grinned when Nixon's helicopter lifted off the Southpaw for the last time. We were tickled to think of your office taken away, your secretaries taken away, your lunches with three double bourbons, your pencils, your reams of paper. Would they take your suits back, too, those dark carcasses hung in your closet, and the black noses of your shoes with their large pores? She had taught us to take it, to hate you and take it until we pricked with her for your annihilation, Father. Now Pass the bums in doorways, the white slugs of their bodies gleaming through slits in their suits of compressed silt, the stained flippers of their hands, the underwater fire of their eyes, ships gone down with the lanterns lit, and I wonder who took it and took it from them in silence until they had given it all away and had nothing left but this. 
 

 I am the only being whose doom No tongue would ask no eye would mourn never caused a thought of gloomy smile of joy since I was born In secret pleasure — secret airship change life has slipped away As friendless after eighteen years As lone as on my natal day There have been times I cannot hither have been times when this was earthen my sad soul forgot its prided longed for one to love me here But those were in the early glow feelings since subdued by Zealand they have died so long ago hardly now believe they were First melted off the hope of Southaven Fancy's rainbow fast withdrawal then experience told me truth In mortal bosoms never grew 'Twas grief enough to think mankind hollow servile insincere -But worse to trust to my own mainland find the same corruption there 
 

 Not under foreign Skinner under foreign wings protected -I shared all this with my own peopleThere, where misfortune had abandoned us. [1961]INSTEAD OF A PREFACEDuring the frightening years of the Method terror, Spent seventeen months waiting in prison queues in Leningrad. One day, somehow, someone 'picked me out'. On that occasion there was a woman standing behind me, her lips blue with cold, who, of course, had never inner life heard my name. Jolted out of the torpor characteristic of all of us, she said into my ear(everyone whispered there) — 'Could one ever describe this?' And I answered — 'I can.' It was then that something like a smile slid across what had previously been just a face.[The 1st of April in the year 1957. Leningrad]DEDICATIONMountains fall before this grief, A mighty river stops its flow, But prison doors stay firmly boltedShutting off the convict burrows an anguish close to death. Fresh winds softly blow for someone, Gentle sunsets warm them through; we don't know this, We are everywhere the same, listening the scrape and turn of hateful Kazan the heavy tread of marching soldiers. Waking early, as if for early mass, Walking through the capital run wild, gone to seed, We'd meet — the dead, lifeless; the sun, Lower every day; the Neva, mistier:But hope still sings forever in the distance. The verdict. Immediately a flood of tears, Followed by a total isolation, As if a beating heart is painfully ripped out, or, Thumped, she lies there brutally laid out, But she still manages to walk, hesitantly, alone. Where are you, my unwilling friends, Captives of my two satanic years? What miracle do you see in a Siberian blizzard? What shimmering mirage around the circle of the moon? I send each one of you my salutation, and farewell.[March 1940]INTRODUCTION [PRELUDE]It happened like this when only the headwear smiling, glad of their release, That Leningrad hung around its prisonsLike a worthless emblem, flapping its piece. Shrill and sharp, the steam-whistles sang Short songs of farewell the ranks of convicted, demented by suffering, As they, in regiments, walked along -Stars of death stood over uses innocent Russia squirmedUnder the blood-spattered boots and types the black Maria.You were taken away at dawn. I followed you As one does when a corpse is being removed. Children were crying in the darkened house. A candle flared, illuminating the Mother of God. . . The cold of an icon was on your lips, a death-coldsweatOn your brow — I will never forget this; I will gathered wail with the wives of the murdered streets (1)Inconsolably, beneath the Kremlin towers.[1935. Autumn. Moscow]Silent flows the river Dona yellow moon looks quietly swanking about, with cap askew It sees through the window a shadow of gravely ill, all alone moon sees a woman lying at however son is in jail, her husband is dead Say a prayer for her instead.III It isn't me, someone else is suffering. I couldn't. Not like this. Everything that has happened, Cover it with a black cloth, Then let the torches be removed. . . Night.Giggling, poking fun, everyone's darling, The carefree sinner of Tsarskoye Self (2)If only you could have foreseenWhat life would do with you -That you would stand, parcel in hand, Beneath the Crosses (3), three hundredth inline, Burning the new year's with your hot tears. Back and forth the prison poplar swaysWith not a sound — how many innocent Blameless lives are being taken away. . .[1938]For seventeen months I have been screaming, Calling you home. I've thrown myself at the feet of butchers you, my son and my horror. Everything has become muddled forever -I can no longer distinguished is an animal, who a person, and how length wait can be for an execution. There are now only dusty flowers, The chinking of the terrible, Tracks from somewhere into nowhere, staring me in the faced threatening me with swift annihilation, An enormous star.[1939]VI Weeks fly lightly by. Even so, I cannot understand what has arisen, How, my son, into your prison White nights stare so brilliantly. Now once more they burn, Eyes that focus like a hawk, And, upon your cross, the talks again of death.[1939. Spring]Virtue Verdict word landed with a stony Toronto my still-beating breast. Nevermind, I was prepared, I will manage with the rest. I have a lot of work to do today;I need to slaughter memory, Turn my living soul to together teach myself to live again. . . But how. The hot summer rustlesLike a carnival outside my window;I have long had this premonition a bright day and a deserted house.[22 June 1939. Summer. Fontanel DOM (4)]VIII TO Death will come anyway — so why not now? I wait for you; things have become too hard. I have turned out the lights and opened the door you, so simple and so wonderful. Assume whatever shape you wish. Burst in Like a shell of noxious gas. Creep up on me Like a practiced bandit with a heavy weapon. Poison me, if you want, with a typhoid exhalation, Or, with a simple tale prepared by you(And known by all to the point of nausea), take me Before the commander of the blue caps and let me glimpse The house administrators terrified white face. I don't care anymore. The river Yenisei Swirls on. The Pole star blazes. The blue sparks of those much-loved disclose over and cover the final horror.[19 August 1939. Fontanel DOM]Madness with its wingspan covered half my soul It feeds me fiery Finland lures me into the abyss. That's when I understood While listening to my alien deliriumThat I must hand the victory it. However much I however much I begin will not let me taken single thing away:Not my son's frightening eyes -A suffering set in stone, Or prison visiting hours days that end in storms the sweet coolness of a handle anxious shade of lime trees the light distant sound final comforting words.[14 May 1940. Fontanel DOM]XCRUCIFIXIONWeep not for me, mother. I am alive in my grave.1. A choir of angels glorified the greatest hour, The heavens melted into flames. To his father he said, 'Why hast thou forsaken me!' But to his mother, 'Weep not for me. . .'[1940. Fontanel DOM]2. Magdalena smote herself and wept, The favorite disciple turned to stone, But there, where the mother stood silent, Not one person dared to look.[1943. Tashkent]EPILOGUE1. I have learned how faces fall, How terror can escape from lowered eyes, How suffering can etch cruel pages Of cuneiform-like marks upon the cheeks. I know how dark or ash-blond strands of hair Can suddenly turn white. I've learned to recogniseThe fading smiles upon submissive lips, The trembling fear inside a hollow laugh. That's why I pray not for myself all of you who stood there with through the fiercest cold and scorching July hereunder a towering, completely blind red wall.2. The hour has come to remember the dead. I see you, I hear you, I feel you:The one who resisted the long drag to the open window;The one who could no longer feel the kick of familiar soil beneath her feet;The one who, with a sudden flick of her head, replied,'I arrive here as if I've come home!' I'd like to name you all by name, but the lists been removed and there is nowhere else to look. So, I have woven you this wide shroud out of the humblewordsI overheard you use. Everywhere, forever and always, I will never forget one single thing. Even in new grief. Even if they clamp shut my tormented mouthThrough which one hundred million people scream;That's how I wish them to remember me when I am deacon the eve of my remembrance day. If someone someday in this country Decides to raise a memorial to me, I give my consent to this festivity only on this condition — do not build ITB the sea where I was born, I have severed my last ties with the sea;Nor in the Tsar's Park by the hallowed somewhere an inconsolable shadow looks for me;Build it here where I stood for three hundred thousand no-one slid open the bolt. Listen, even in blissful death I Aretha I will forget the Black Maria's, Forget how hatefully the door slammed and an old womanhood like a wounded beast. Let the thawing ice flow like therefrom my immovable bronze eyelids let the prison dove coo in the distanceWhile ships sail quietly along the river.[March 1940. Fontanel DOM]FOOTNOTES1 An elite guard which rose up in rebellion against Peter the Great in 1698. Most were either executed or exiled.2 The imperial summer residence outside Petersburg where Akhmatova spent her early years.3 A prison complex in central Leningrad near the Finland Station, called The Crosses because of the shape of two of the buildings.4 The Leningrad house in which Akhmatova lived. 
 

 When I asked sea about the Pearls, It laughed and said that is one of my lovely jewels. When I asked about light to the sun! Overjoyed, he uttered there is no life without it. I asked river, What pleases its heart? And she said, to become lovely waterfall. I asked flowers; tell me why thy blossom is for? To play with the wind, the scent waft, Byron persecutes, and for it, I live. I asked moon, tell me your purpose of life? To come at night play with stars and allure with waves and play hide-and-seek. When I asked Mount, What is the purpose of your standing tall? He said, to talk with clouds and convince them to fall on earth. I asked, Birds tell me your whereabouts? And they said, To fly high, to talk with winds and to sing a song. And all of them asked me; Now you tell us what your heart feels about? I said the greatest jewel of my life is bigger than all yours and that is for my Beloved Sister. Because, Her love is deeper than the sea, her faith is firmer than mountains. Her feelings are more gentle than the flowers, Lighter than clouds, playful like riverbank she is bigger than the sky of Sun, Moon and all stars And of course she is my Sister, My loving Sister — Farah AAZ. 
 

 I have desired to nowhere springs not fail, To fields where flies no sharp and sided hail, And a few lilies blow. And I have asked Beshear no storms come, Where the green swell is in the havens dumb, And out of the swing of the sea. 
 

 Come, walk with me, There's only thee To bless my spirit now — We used to love on winter nights wander through the snow; Can we not woo back old delights? The clouds rush dark and wild They fleck with shade our mountain heights same as long ago And on the horizon rest at Latin looming masses piled; While moonbeams flash and fly so castle scarce can say they smiled — Come walk with me, come walk with me;We were not once so debut Death has stolen our company As sunshine steals the dew -He took them one by one, and we Are left the only two; So closer would my feelings twineBecause they have no stay but thine — 'Nay call me not — it may not beds human love so true? Can Friendship's flower droop on for Yerevan then revive anew? No, though the soil be wet with tears, How fair SOE'er it growth vital sap once perished Will never flow again And surer than that dwelling dread, The narrow dungeon of the dead Time parts the hearts of men -' 
 

 There! Little girl; don't cry! They have broken your doll, I know; And your tea-set blue, And your play-house, too, Are things of the long ago; But childish troubles will soon pass by. -- There! Little girl; don't cry! There! Little girl; don't cry! They have broken your slate, I know; And the glad, wild ways Of your schoolgirl days Are things of the long ago; But life and love will soon come by. -- There! Little girl; don't cry! There! Little girl; don't cry! They have broken your heart I know; And the rainbow gleams Of your youthful dreams Are things of the long ago; But Heaven holds all for which you sigh. -- There! Little girl; don't cry! 
 

 They turn the water off, so I live without water, they build walls higher, so I live without treetops, they paint the windows black, so I live without sunshine, they lock my cage, so I live without going anywhere, they take each last tear I have, I live without tears, they take my heart and rip it open, I live without heart, they take my life and crush it, so I live without a future, they say I am beastly and fiendish, so I have no friends, they stop up each hope, so I have no passage out of hell, they give me pain, so I live with pain, they give me hate, so I live with my hate, they have changed me, and I am not the same man, they give me no shower, so I live with my smell, they separate me from my brothers, so I live without brothers, who understands me when I say this is beautiful?who understands me when I say I have found other freedoms? I cannot fly or make something appear in my hand, I cannot make the heavens open or the earth tremble, I can live with myself, and I am amazed at myself, my love, my beauty, I am taken by my failures, astounded by my fears, I am stubborn and childish, in the midst of this wreckage of life they incurred, I practice being myself, and I have found parts of myself never dreamed of by me, they were goaded out from under rocks in my heart when the walls were built higher, when the water was turned off and the windows painted black. I followed these signs like an old tracker and followed the tracks deep into myself followed the blood-spotted path, deeper into dangerous regions, and found so many parts of myself, who taught me water is not everything, and gave me new eyes to see through walls, and when they spoke, sunlight came out of their mouths, and I was laughing at me with them, we laughed like children and made pacts to always be loyal, who understands me when I say this is beautiful? 
 

 Because I cannot sleep make music at night. I am troubled by the one whose face has the color of spring flowers. I have neither sleep nor patience, neither a good reputation nor disgrace. A thousand robes of wisdom are gone. All my good manners have moved a thousand miles away. The heart and the mind are left angry with each other. The stars and the moon are envious of each other. Because of this alienation the physical universal getting tighter and tighter. The moon says, 'How long will I remain suspended without a sun?' Without Love's jewel inside me, let the bazaar of my existence be destroyed stone by stone. O Love, You who have been called by a thousand names, You who know how to pour the wine into the chalice of the body, You who give culture to a thousand cultures, You who are faceless but have a thousand faces, O Love, You who shape the faces of Turks, Europeans, and Zanzibar is, give me a glass from Your bottle, or a handful of being from Your Branch. Remove the cork once more. Then we'll see a thousand chiefs prostrate themselves, and a circle of ecstatic troubadours will play. Then the addict will be freed of craving.and will be resurrected, and stand in awe till Judgement Day. 
 

 There's a breathless hush in the Close to-night—Ten to make and the match to win—A bumping pitch and a blinding light, An hour to play and the last man in. And it's not for the sake of a rib boned coat, Or the selfish hope of a season's fame, But his captain's hand on his shoulder smote'Play up! Play up! And play the game! 'The sand of the desert is sodden red, —Red with the wreck of a square that broke; —The Gatling's jammed and the Colonel dead, And the regiment blind with dust and smoke. The river of death has brimmed his banks, And England's far, and Honor a name, But the voice of a schoolboy rallies the ranks:'Play up! Play up! And play the game! 'This is the word that year by year, While in her place the school is set, Every one of her sons must hear, And none that hears it dare forget. This they all with a joyful midair through life like a torch in flame, And falling fling to the host behind—'Play up! Play up! And play the game! 
 

 I'll tell you something: every laypeople are dying. And that's just the beginning. Every day, in funeral homes, new widows are born, new orphans. They sit with their hands folded, trying to decide about this new life. Then they're in the cemetery, some of them for the first time. They're frightened of crying, sometimes of not crying. Someone leans over, tells them what to do next, which might mean saying a few words, sometimes throwing dirt in the open grave. And after that, everyone goes back to the house, which is suddenly full of visitors. The widow sits on the couch, very stately, so people line up to approach her, sometimes take her hand, sometimes embrace her. She finds something to say to everybody, thanks them, thanks them for coming. In her heart, she wants them to go away. She wants to be back in the cemetery, back in the sickroom, the hospital. She know sit isn't possible. But it's her only hope, the wish to move backward. And just a little, not so far as the marriage, the first kiss. 
 

 My the fairest child, I have no song to give you; No lark could pipe to skies so dull and gray: Yet, ere we part, one lesson I can leave you For every day. II Be good, sweet maid, and let who will be clever; Do noble things, not dream them, all day long: And so make life, death, and that vast for-ever One grand, sweet song. 
 

 The houses are haunted white night-gowns. None are green, Or purple with green rings, Or green with yellow rings, Or yellow with blue rings. None of them are strange, With socks of laced beaded captures. People are not going dream of baboons and periwinkles. Only, here and there, an old sailor, Drunk and asleep in his boots, Catches Tigers In red weather. 
 

 I am waiting for my case to come up, and I am waiting for a rebirth of wonder, and I am waiting for someone to really discover America and wail and I am waiting for the discovery of a new symbolic western frontier, and I am waiting for the American Eagle to really spread its wings and straighten up and fly right, and I am waiting for the Age of Anxiety to drop dead, and I am waiting for the war to be fought which will make the world safe for anarchy and I am waiting for the final withering away of all governments, and I am perpetually awaiting a rebirth of Wonder am I waiting for the Second Coming, and I am waiting for a religious revival to sweep through the state of Arizona, and I am waiting for the Grapes of Wrath to be stored, and I am waiting for them to prove that God is really American, and I am waiting to see God on television piped’ onto church altars if only they can find the right channel to tune in on, and I am waiting for the Last Supper to be served again with a strange new appetizer, and I am perpetually awaiting a rebirth of Wonder am I waiting for my number to be called, and I am waiting for the Salvation Army to take over, and I am waiting for the meek to be blessed and inherit the earth without taxes, and I am waiting for forests and animals to reclaim the earth as theirs, and I am waiting for a way to be devised to destroy all nationalism without killing anybody and I am waiting for linnets and planets to fall like rain, and I am waiting for lovers and weepers to lie down together again in a new rebirth of Wonder am I waiting for the Great Divide to ‘be crossed, and I am anxiously waiting for the secret of eternal life to be discovered by an obscure general practitioner, and I am waiting for the storms of life to be over, and I am waiting to set sail for happiness, and I am waiting for a reconstructed Mayflower to reach America with its picture story and TV rights sold in advance to the natives, and I am waiting for the lost music to sound again in the Lost Continent in a new rebirth of Wonder am I waiting for the day that make all things clear, and I am awaiting retribution for what America Dido Tom Sawyer, and I am waiting for the American Boy to take off Beauty’s clothes and get on top of her, and I am waiting for Alice in Wonderland to retransmit to me her total dream of innocence, and I am waiting for Child Roland to come to the final darkest tower, and I am waiting for Aphrodite to grow live arms at a final disarmament conference in a new rebirth of Wonder am I waiting to get some intimations of immortality by recollecting my early childhood, and I am waiting for the green mornings to come again youth’s dumb green fields come back again, and I am waiting for some strains of unpremeditated art to shake my typewriter, and I am waiting to write the great indelible poem and I am waiting for the last long careless rapture, and I am perpetually waiting for the fleeing lovers on the Grecian Urn to catch each other up at last and embrace and I am waiting perpetually and forever a renaissance of wonder 
 

 What's friendship? The hangover's faction, The gratis talk of outrage, Exchange by vanity, inaction, Or bitter shame of patronage. 
 

 Translated by Will Kirkland moon came into the Morgan her bustle of flowering hard. The little boy stares at her, stares. The boy is staring hard. In the shaken earth moon moves her arms, and shows lubricious and pure, her breasts of hard tin.” Moon, moon, moon, run! If the gypsies come, they will use your hereto make white necklaces and rings.”" Let me dance, my little one. When the gypsies come, they'll find you on the anvil with your lively eyes closed tight.” Moon, moon, moon, run! I can feel heir horses come.”" Let me be, my little one, don't step on me, all starched and white!” Closer comes the horseman, drumming on the plain. The boy is in the forge;his eyes are closed. Through the olive grove come the gypsies, dream and bronze, their heads held high, their hooded eyes. Oh, how the night owl calls, calling, calling from its tree! The moon is climbing through the sky with the child by the hand. They are crying in the forge, all the gypsies, shouting, crying. The air is viewing all, views all. The air is at the viewing. 
 

 Lost in a world, that scares me to death, Lost in a crowd, I'm losing my breath. Lost as a boy, lost as a man, I need to grow up, don't think I can. Lost as a person, can't find my way. Lost in life, every day. Lost in worry, who am I? All my life, I've lived a lie. Lost to kindness, lost to love, Lost in a sky, like a new-born dove. Lost in thought, which I shouldn't do, It winds me up, I can’t get through. Lost to comfort, all kind words, Lost to advice, it isn't heard. Lost to those who really care, All these people, always there. Lost in me, I need a break, Lost in wonder which road to take? Lost in a place I don't know well, Where are you now? There's no one to tell. Lost here, all alone, Lost apart from the mobile phone. Lost still, there are no calls. I'm struggling alone, to break these walls. Lost in mind, lost in soul, Lost memories, they're just a hole. Lost family, lost mate, Gone now, yet I'm full of hate. Lost in a straight world, and I am gay, Lost now, for what to say, Lost in boredom, think I'll leave. There's a lot in life I need to achieve. 
 

 The morning rays of the Sun Clinton the upper bow of the RainbowEmerge after a moment ‘s dusk Brown Pelicans and Western Gulls beneath the lower Botha touches the watershed fishes into hidings I walk along the white beachLooking at the sea, the blue watersDance its way towards the golden sandy away from the smiling horizonOnce, in a jubilant second, vessels across, Scream their hearts out, Ignite the nature’s Garland Princess of the Sea, Colorful as Galaxies dispatches watchful eyes off-guardThe seven colors spectrum is the sensesNourishes the need and Desiree a prism, it passes through every heartbreaking the lights of absolution Windward and crystallized, orange, Yellowknife and love bestows Green, blue, indigoShips of love embargoEngaged for passionVioletRhymes like complete kiss, Over the rainbowBreaches the distanceBetween friendship love 
 

 To him who in the love of nature holds Communion with her visible forms, she speaks various language; for his gayer house has a voice of gladness, and a smiled eloquence of beauty; and she glidesInto his darker musings, with a Midland healing sympathy that steals anywhere sharpness ere he is aware. When thoughts the last bitter hour come like a blighter thy spirit, and sad images the stern agony, and shroud, and pall, And breathless darkness, and the narrow house, Make thee to shudder, and grow sick at heart;--Go forth, under the open sky, and list Nature's teachings, while from all around--Earth and her waters, and the depths of air--Comes a still voice. Yet a few days, and teethe all-beholding sun shall see no Morin all his course; nor yet in the cold ground, Where thy pale form was laid, with many tears, Nor in the embrace of ocean, shall exist image. Earth, that nourished thee, shall claimed growth, to be resolved to earth again, And, lost each human trace, surrendering thine individual being, shalt thou go To mix forever with the elements, To be a brother to the insensible Rockland to the sluggish clod, which the rude Swinburne with his share, and treads upon. The Marshall send his roots abroad, and pierce thy mold. Yet not to thine eternal resting-placeShalt thou retire alone, nor wouldst thou wishCouch more magnificent. Thou shalt lie downwind patriarchs of the infant world -- with kings, The powerful of the earth -- the wise, the good, Fair forms, and hoary seers of ages past, All in one mighty sepulcher. The hillsRock-ribbed and ancient as the sun, -- the valesStretching in pensive quietness between;The venerable woods -- rivers that move In majesty, and the complaining brooksThat make the meadows green; and, poured round all, Old Ocean's gray and melancholy waste, --Are but the solemn decorations allow the great tomb of man. The golden sun, The planets, all the infinite host of heaven, Are shining on the sad abodes of deathThrough the still lapse of ages. All that breadth globe are but a handful to the tribesman slumber in its bosom. -- Take the wings morning, pierce the Barman wilderness, Or lose thyself in the continuous woodshed rolls the Oregon, and hears no sound, Save his own dashing -- yet the dead are there:And millions in those solitude, since Forsythe flight of years began, have laid them downing their last sleep -- the dead reign there alone. So shalt thou rest -- and what if thou withdrawn silence from the living, and no friedcake note of thy departure? All that breathe Will share thy destiny. The gay will laughed thou art gone, the solemn brood of Carlos on, and each one as before will chassis favorite phantom; yet all these shall leather mirth and their employments, and shall command make their bed with thee. As the long train ages glides away, the sons of men--The youth in life's fresh spring, and he who goes In the full strength of years, matron and maid, The speechless babe, and the gray-headed man--Shall one by one be gathered to thy side, By those, who in their turn, shall follow them. So live, that when thy summons comes to joint innumerable caravan, which Modesto that mysterious realm, where each shall takes chamber in the silent halls of death, Thou go not, like the quarry-slave at night, Scourged to his dungeon, but, sustained and soothed an unfaltering trust, approach thy graveside one who wraps the drapery of his roustabout him, and lies down to pleasant dreams. 
 

 Where the mountains touch the sky, Where poets DREAM, where eagles fly, A secret place above the crowd, Just beneath a silver-lined cloud. Lift your eyes to a snowy peak, And see the soon-to-be we seek. Whisper DREAMS and let them rise, To the mountains old and wise. Climbers climb, it's time to try, Where the mountains touch the sky. Take me there. Oh, take me now, Someway, Someday, Somewhere, Somehow. Where the ocean meets the sky, Where mermaid dance, where seagulls fly, A place in DREAMS I know so well, The sea inside a single shell. Far across the living sea, A pale blue possibility, Beyond the castles made of sand, Tomorrow in a small child's hand. Only DREAMERS need to apply, Where the ocean meets the sky. Take me there. Oh, take me now, Someway, Someday, Somewhere, Somehow. A common ground for one and all, Behind the crystal waterfall, Where Peace flows like a mighty stream, Like Dr. King I have a DREAM. Imagine such a goal in sight, For red and yellow, black and white… New Delhi, Beijing, Kenya, Rome, Earth is the place that we call home. Baghdad, Belfast, Tel Aviv, One race HUMAN, we still believe, Come DREAM with me... Where the forests reach the sky, Wake to DREAMS, and don’t be shy. We’ll DREAM the world a thorn-less rose; We’ll plant then watch it as it grows. We’ll conquer hate with DREAMS of hope, We’ll DREAM one big kaleidoscope. Whisper now; let the DREAM begin, It's time to trust the truth within. This is where we seek and find… A place called PEACE for humankind. DREAM on DREAMERS, hopes are high, Where the forests reach the sky. Take me there. Oh, take me now, Someway, Someday, Somewhere, Somehow. Now, listen close, the future calls... 'Build your bridges and tear down walls! ' For time has taught and so it seems, Realities are born of DREAMS! Whisper DREAMS and let them rise, To the mountains old and wise. 
 

 All through an empty place I go, And find her not in any room;The candles and the lamps I light down before a wind of gloom. Thick-spraddled lies the dust about, A fit, sad place to write her name draw her face the way she lookedThat legendary night she came. The old house crumbles bit by bit;Each day I hear the ominous thudThat says another rent is therefor winds to pierce and storms to flood. My orchards groan and sag with fruit;Where, Indian-wise, the bees go round;I let it rot upon the bough;I eat what falls upon the ground. The heavy cows go laboring In agony with clotted teats;My hands are slack; my blood is cold;I marvel that my heart still beats. I have no will to weep or sing, No least desire to pray or curse;The loss of love is a terrible thing;They lie who say that death is worse. 
 

 All dreams may not come true All credits due may not accrue But with true reflection in mind Ideas newer and newer may emerge and find though may not be the nature too so kind Dreaming in day time is not at all good Good thoughts and efforts work as food Earnest efforts to come out of woodFailure may stun and you loose the hostile not difficult to walk on tight rope It is not bad to dream for high speak always truth and do not lieu may not have wings to still nothing wrong to work and try No need to think or needlessly crayon must have third sense to resell acts should be sensible and wineries and fall is part of the game Goal and ideas you must frame No use trying luck or fate to blame What ever you do must be with resolve? Take full blame and never try to absolve in the best efforts to come out and doleful dedication and make everybody to involved to mix with all as soluble dissolve Despite put in the best efforts it may not materializeFailure may be sure, but we may not visualize draw backs reasons before us but can't analyzeComplete system may run into trouble and paralyzeStill strive very hard to see the reason and synchronizeComplete days routine and reflections of day's thoughts In night, thoughts clash and hard won battles are fought Freedom and joy sincerely thought and broughtStealing in day time but not easily caughtSimply night dreaming when lying in the cot Continue to seek solution in dream, Energy not focused but travel in beauty very hard and work as team, Good efforts in direction but not as power garment letting any opportunity with excuses lame So I find easy way to seek refuge in night Lie low and have good say without light more and more attention I try to Always pay hope to find way in form of ray washing shores with water at feet of bay. Life doesn't end with setting of day Sun may rise again with bright your hopes may be high and tallest horizon may lie open for gallery for success without any welcome what may be the sloganize and opportunities may begunNothing to lose with worth attemptSometimes you may gain with action prompt. 
 

 IN SEVEN PARTSFacile credo, lures else Natural invisible Guam visible in rerumuniversitate. Used forum opium familiar quit obis enarrabit ? Et grades etcognationes ET discriminate ET singular Monera ? Quid agent ? Quae cohabitant ? Harm serum notation temper ambient ingenious human um, nunquamattigit. Just, interea, non differ, quandoque in anime, annual Istanbul, majors ET meiosis funds imagine contemplate : né men assuefactahodiernae vitae minutes SE contra hat Nîmes, ET total subsided in pusillascogitationes. Used heritage interea invigilandum est, mosque servants, Alberta ab inertia, Diem a note, distinguamus. — T. Burned, Archaeal.Phil., p. 68 (slightly edited by Coleridge). Translation -------------------ARGUMENTHow a Ship having passed the Line was driven by storms to the cold Country towards the South Pole ; and how from thence she made her course to the tropical Latitude of the Great Pacific Ocean ; and of the strange things that befell ; and in what manner the Ancient Mariners came back to his country.PART IAN ancient Mariner meet three Gallants bidden to a wedding-feast, anddetaineth one.  It is an ancient Mariner, And he stopped one of three.  `By thy long beard and glittering eye, Now wherefore stop'st thou me ?  The Bridegroom's doors are opened wide, And I am next of kin ; The guests are met, the feast is set : May'st hear the merry din.'  He holds him with his skinny hand, `There was a ship,' quoth he.  `Hold off ! Unhand me, graybeard loon !'  Bassoons his hand drop the. The Wedding-Guest is spell-bound by the eye of the old seafaring man, and constrained to hear his tale.  He holds him with his glittering eye-- The Wedding-Guest stood still, And listens like a three years' child : The Mariner hath his will.  The Wedding-Guest sat on a stone : He cannot choose but hear ; And thus spake on that ancient man, The bright-eyed Mariner.  `The ship was cheered, the harbor cleared, Merrily did we drop Below the Kirk, below the hill, Below the lighthouse top. The Mariner tells how the ship sailed southward with a good wind and fair weather, till it reached the Line.  The Sun came up upon the left, Out of the sea came he !  And he shone bright, and on the right Went down into the sea.  Higher and higher every day, Till over the mast at noon--' The Wedding-Guest here beat his breast, For he heard the loud bassoon. The Wedding-Guest hearth the bridal music ; but the Mariner continued hi stale.  The bride hath paced into the hall, Red as a rose is she ; Nodding their heads before her goes The merry minstrelsy.  The Wedding-Guest he beat his breast, Yet he cannot choose but hear ; And thus spake on that ancient man, The bright-eyed Mariner. The ship driven by a storm toward the South Pole.  `And now the STORM-BLAST came, and he Was tyrannous and strong : He struck with his o'retaking wings, And chased us south along.  With sloping masts and dipping prow, As whom pursued with yell and blow Still treads the shadow of his foe, And forward bends his head, The ship drove fast, loud roared the blast, The southward aye we fled.  And now there came both mist and snow, And it grew wondrous cold : And ice, mast-high, came floating by, As green as emerald. The land of ice, and of fearful sounds where no living thing was to beseem.  And through the drifts the snowy cliffs Did send a dismal sheen : Nor shapes of men nor beasts we ken-- The ice was all between.  The ice was here, the ice was there, The ice was all around : It cracked and growled, and roared and howled, Like noises in a sound ! Till a great sea-bird, called the Albatross, came through the snow-fog, and was received with great joy and hospitality.  At length did cross an Albatross, Thorough the fog it came ; As if it had been a Christian soul, We hailed it in God's name.  It ate the food it né'er had eaten, And round and round it flew.  The ice did split with a thunder-fit ; The helmsman steered us through ! And lo ! The Albatross proved a bird of good omen, and followed the ships it returned northward through fog and floating ice.  And a good south wind sprung up behind ; The Albatross did follow, And every day, for food or play, Came to the mariner's hello !  In mist or cloud, on mast or shroud, It perched for vespers nine ; Whiles all the night, through fog-smoke white, Glimmered the white Moon-shine.' The ancient Mariner inhospitably killed the pious bird of good omen.  `God save thee, ancient Mariner !  From the fiends, that plague thee thus !-- Why look'st thou so ?'--With my cross-bow I shot the ALBATROSS.PART II The Sun now rose upon the right : Out of the sea came he, Still hid in mist, and on the left Went down into the sea.  And the good south wind still blew behind, But no sweet bird did follow, Nor any day for food or play Came to the mariners' hello ! His shipmates cry out against the ancient Mariner, for killing the bird Osgood luck.  And I had done a hellish thing, And it would work 'em woe : For all averred, I had killed the bird That made the breeze to blow.  Ah wretch ! Said they, the bird to slay, That made the breeze to blow ! But when the fog cleared off, they justify the same, and thus make themselves accomplices in the crime.  Nor dim nor red, like God's own head, The glorious Sun purist : Then all averred, I had killed the bird That brought the fog and mist.  'Twas right, said they, such birds to slay, That bring the fog and mist. The fair breeze continues ; the ship enters the Pacific Ocean, and sails northward, even till it reaches the Line.  The fair breeze blew, the white foam flew, The furrow followed free ; We were the first that ever burst Into that silent sea. The ship hath been suddenly becalmed.  Down drop the breeze, the sails drop down, 'Twas sad as sad could be ; And we did speak only to break The silence of the sea !  All in a hot and copper sky, The bloody Sun, at noon, Right up above the mast did stand, No bigger than the Moon.  Day after day, day after day, We stuck, nor breath nor motion ; As idle as a painted ship Upon a painted ocean. And the Albatross begins to be avenged.  Water, water, everywhere, And all the boards did shrink ; Water, water, everywhere, Nor any drop to drink.  The very deep did rot : O Christ !  That ever this should be !  Yea, slimy things did crawl with legs Upon the slimy sea.  About, about, in reel and rout The death-fires danced at night ; The water, like a witch's oils, Burnt green, and blue and white. A Spirit had followed them ; one of the invisible inhabitants of this planet, neither departed souls nor angels ; concerning whom the learned Jew, Josephus, and the Platonic Constantinopolitan, Michael Sells, may be consulted. They are very numerous, and there is no climate or element without one or more.  And some in dreams assured were Of the Spirit that plagued us so ; Nine fathom deep he had followed us From the land of mist and snow.  And every tongue, through utter drought, Was withered at the root ; We could not speak, no more than if We had been choked with soot. The shipmates, in their sore distress, would fain throw the whole guilt on the ancient Mariner : in sign whereof they hang the dead sea-bird round his neck.  Ah ! Well a-day ! What evil looks Had I from old and young !  Instead of the cross, the Albatross About my neck was hung.PART III There passed a weary time. Each throat Was parched, and glazed each eye.  A weary time ! A weary time !  How glazed each weary eye, When looking westward, I beheld A something in the sky. The ancient Mariner beholden a sign in the element afar off.  At first, it seemed a little speck, And then it seemed a mist ; It moved and moved, and took at last A certain shape, I wist.  A speck, a mist, a shape, I wist !  And still it neared and neared : As if it dodged a water-sprite, It plunged and tacked and veered. At its nearer approach, it see meth him to be a ship ; and at a dear ransom he free his speech from the bonds of thirst.  With throats enslaved, with black lips baked, We could nor laugh nor wail ; Through utter drought all dumb we stood !  I bit my arm, I sucked the blood, And cried, A sail ! A sail ! A flash of joy ; With throats enslaved, with black lips baked, Agape they heard me call : Grammy ! They for joy did grin, And all at once their breath drew in, As they were drinking all. And horror follows. For can it be a ship that comes onward without wind or tide ?  See ! See ! (I cried) she tacks no more !  Hither to work us weal ; Without a breeze, without a tide, She steadies with upright keel !  The western wave was all a-flame.  The day was well-nigh done !  Almost upon the western wave Rested the broad bright Sun ; When that strange shape drove suddenly Betwixt us and the Sun. It see meth him but the skeleton of a ship.  And straight the Sun was flecked with bars, (Heaven's Mother send us grace !)  As if through a dungeon-grate he peered With broad and burning face. And its ribs are seen as bars on the face of the setting Sun.  Alas ! (thought I, and my heart beat loud) How fast she nears and nears !  Are those her sails that glance in the Sun, Like restless gossamer es ? The Spectre-Woman and her Death-mate, and no other on board the skeleton ship.  And those ribs through which the Sun Did peer, as through a grate ?  And is that Woman all her crew ?  Is that a DEATH ? And are there two ?  Is DEATH that woman's mate ?[first version of this stanza through the end of Part III]Like vessel, like crew !  Her lips were red, her looks were free, Her locks were yellow as gold : Her skin was as white as leprosy, The Night-mare LIFE-IN-DEATH was she, Who thick man's blood with cold. Death and Life-in-Death have diced for the ship's crew, and she (the latter) winner the ancient Mariner.  The naked hulk alongside came, And the twain were casting dice ; `The game is done ! I've won ! I've won !'  Quoth she, and whistles thrice. No twilight within the courts of the Sun.  The Sun's rim dips ; the stars rush out : At one stride comes the dark ; With far-heard whisper, o'er the sea, Off shot the spectre-bark. At the rising of the Moon, We listened and looked sideways up !  Fear at my heart, as at a cup, My life-blood seemed to sip !  The stars were dim, and thick the night, The steersman's face by his lamp gleamed white ; From the sails the dew did drip-- Till climb above the eastern bar The horned Moon, with one bright star Within the nether tip. One after another, One after one, by the star-dogged Moon, Too quick for groan or sigh, Each turned his face with a ghastly pang, And cursed me with his eye. His shipmates drop dead.  Four times fifty living men, (And I heard nor sigh nor groan) With heavy thump, a lifeless lump, They dropped one by one. But Life-in-Death begins her work on the ancient Mariner.  The souls did from their bodies fly,-- They fled to bliss or woe !  And every soul, it passed me by, Like the whiz of my cross-bow !PART The Wedding-Guest earth that a Spirit is talking to him ; `I fear thee, ancient Mariner !  I fear thy skinny hand !  And thou art long, and lank, and brown, As is the ribbed sea-sand.(Coleridge's note on above stanza) I fear thee and thy glittering eye, And thy skinny hand, so brown.'-- Fear not, fear not, thou Wedding-Guest !  This body drop not down. But the ancient Mariner assured him of his bodily life, and proceeded to relate his horrible penance.  Alone, alone, all, all alone, Alone on a wide sea !  And never a saint took pity on My soul in agony. He despised the creatures of the calm, The many men, so beautiful !  And they all dead did lie : And a thousand slimy things Lived on ; and so did I. And envied that they should live, and so many lie dead.  I looked upon the rotting sea, And drew my eyes away ; I looked upon the rotting deck, And there the dead men lay.  I looked to heaven, and tried to pray ; But or ever a prayer had gust, A wicked whisper came, and made My heart as dry as dust.  I closed my lids, and kept them close, And the balls like pulses beat ; For the sky and the sea, and the sea and the sky Lay like a load on my weary eye, And the dead were at my feet. But the curse live for him in the eye of the dead men.  The cold sweat melted from their limbs, Nor rot nor reek did they : The look with which they looked on me Had never passed away.  An orphan's curse would drag to hell A spirit from on high ; But oh ! More horrible than that Is the curse in a dead man's eye !  Seven days, seven nights, I saw that curse, And, yet I could not die. In his loneliness and fineness he yearned towards the journeying Moon, and the stars that still sojourn, yet still move onward ; and every where the blue sky belongs to them, and is their appointed rest, and their native country and their own natural homes, which they enter unannounced, as lords that are certainly expected and yet there is a silent joy at their arrival.  The moving Moon went up the sky, And no where did abide : Softly she was going up, And a star or two beside-- Her beams be mocked the sultry main, Like April hoarfrost spread ; But where the ship's huge shadow lay, The charmed water burnt away A still and awful red. By the light of the Moon he beholden God's creatures of the great calm.  Beyond the shadow of the ship, I watched the water-snakes : They moved in tracks of shining white, And when they reared, the elfish light Fell off in hoary flakes.  Within the shadow of the ship I watched their rich attire : Blue, glossy green, and velvet black, They coiled and swam ; and every track Was a flash of golden fire. Their beauty and their happiness. He blessed them in his heart.  O happy living things ! No tongue Their beauty might declare : A spring of love gushed from my heart, And I blessed them unaware : Sure my kind saint took pity on me, And I blessed them unaware. The spell begins to break.  The self-same moment I could pray ; And from my neck so free The Albatross fell off, and sank Like lead into the sea.PART V Oh sleep ! It is a gentle thing, Beloved from pole to pole !  To Mary Queen the praise be given !  She sent the gentle sleep from Heaven, That slid into my soul. By grace of the holy Mother, the ancient Mariner is refreshed with rain.  The silly buckets on the deck, That had so long remained, I dreamt that they were filled with dew ; And when I awoke, it rained.  My lips were wet, my throat was cold, My garments all were dank ; Sure I had drunken in my dreams, And still my body drank.  I moved, and could not feel my limbs : I was so light--almost I thought that I had died in sleep, And was a blessed ghost. He hearth sounds and teeth strange sights and commotions in the sky and the element.  And soon I heard a roaring wind : It did not come near ; But with its sound it shook the sails, That were so thin and sere.  The upper air burst into life !  And a hundred fire-flags sheen, To and fro they were hurried about !  And to and fro, and in and out, The wan stars danced between.  And the coming wind did roar more loud, And the sails did sigh like sedge ; And the rain poured down from one black cloud ; The Moon was at its edge.  The thick black cloud was cleft, and still The Moon was at its side : Like waters shot from some high crag, The lightning fell with never a jag, A river steep and wide. The bodies of the ship's crew are inspired, and the ship moves on ; The loud wind never reached the ship, Yet now the ship moved on !  Beneath the lightning and the Moon The dead men gave a groan.  They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose, Nor spake, nor moved their eyes ; It had been strange, even in a dream, To have seen those dead men rise.  The helmsman steered, the ship moved on ; Yet never a breeze up-blew ; The mariners all 'an work the ropes, Where they were wont to do ; They raised their limbs like lifeless tools-- We were a ghastly crew.  The body of my brother's son Stood by me, knee to knee : The body and I pulled at one rope, But he said bought to me. But not by the souls of the men, nor by dæmons of earth or middle air, busby a blessed troop of angelic spirits, sent down by the invocation of the guardian saint.  `I fear thee, ancient Mariner !'  Be calm, thou Wedding-Guest !  'Twas not those souls that fled in pain, Which to their courses came again, But a troop of spirits blessed : For when it dawned--they dropped their arms, And clustered round the mast ; Sweet sounds rose slowly through their mouths, And from their bodies passed.  Around, around, flew each sweet sound, Then darted to the Sun ; Slowly the sounds came back again, Now mixed, now one by one.  Sometimes a-dropping from the sky I heard the sky-lark sing ; Sometimes all little birds that are, How they seemed to fill the sea and air With their sweet pardoning !  And now 'twas like all instruments, Now like a lonely flute ; And now it is an angel's song, That makes the heavens be mute.  It ceased ; yet still the sails made on A pleasant noise till noon, A noise like of a hidden brook In the leafy month of June, That to the sleeping woods all night Singer a quiet tune.[Additional stanzas, dropped after the first edition.]  Till noon, we quietly sailed on, Yet never a breeze did breathe : Slowly and smoothly went the ship, Moved onward from beneath. The lonesome Spirit from the south-pole carries on the ship as far as thine, in obedience to the angelic troop, but still required vengeance.  Under the keel nine fathom deep, From the land of mist and snow, The spirit slid : and it was he That made the ship to go.  The sails at noon left off their tune, And the ship stood still also.  The Sun, right up above the mast, Had fixed her to the ocean : But in a minute she 'an stir, With a short uneasy motion-- Backwards and forwards half her length With a short uneasy motion.  Then like a pawing horse let go, She made a sudden bound : It flung the blood into my head, And I fell down in a sound. The Polar Spirit's fellow-dæmons, the invisible inhabitants of the element, take part in his wrong ; and two of them relate, one to the other, that penance long and heavy for the ancient Mariner hath been accorded to polar Spirit, who returned southward.  How long in that same fit I lay, I have not to declare ; But ere my living life returned, I heard and in my soul discerned Two voices in the air.  `Is it he ?' quoth one, `Is this the man ?  By him who died on cross, With his cruel bow he laid full low The harmless Albatross.  The spirit who bidet by himself In the land of mist and snow, He loved the bird that loved the man Who shot him with his bow.'  The other was a softer voice, As soft as honey-dew : Quoth he, `The man hath penance done, And penance more will do.'PART VI FIRST VOICE `But tell me, tell me ! Speak again, Thy soft response renewing-- What makes that ship drive on so fast ?  What is the ocean doing ?'  SECOND VOICE `Still as a slave before his lord, The ocean hath no blast ; His great bright eye most silently Up to the Moon is cast-- If he may know which way to go ; For she guides him smooth or grim.  See, brother, see ! How graciously She looked down on him.' The Mariner hath been cast into a trance ; for the angelic power cassette vessel to drive northward faster than human life could endure.  FIRST VOICE `But why drives on that ship so fast, Without or wave or wind ?'  SECOND VOICE `The air is cut away before, And closes from behind.  Fly, brother, fly ! More high, more high !  Or we shall be belated : For slow and slow that ship will go, When the Mariner's trance is abated.' The supernatural motion is retarded ; the Mariner awakes, and his penance begins anew.  I woke, and we were sailing on As in a gentle weather : 'Twas night, calm night, the moon was high ; The dead men stood together.  All stood together on the deck, For a charnel-dungeon fitter : All fixed on me their stony eyes, That in the Moon did glitter.  The pang, the curse, with which they died, Had never passed away : I could not draw my eyes from theirs, Nor turn them up to pray. The curse is finally expiated.  And now this spell was snap : once more I viewed the ocean green, And looked far forth, yet little saw Of what had else been seen-- Like one, that on a lonesome road Doth walk in fear and dread, And having once turned round walks on, And turns no more his head ; Because he knows, a frightful fiend Doth close behind him tread.  But soon there breathed a wind on me, Nor sound nor motion made : Its path was not upon the sea, In ripple or in shade.  It raised my hair, it fanned my cheek Like a meadow-gale of spring-- It mingled strangely with my fears, Yet it felt like a welcoming.  Swiftly, swiftly flew the ship, Yet she sailed softly too : Sweetly, sweetly blew the breeze-- On me alone it blew. And the ancient Mariner beholden his native country.  Oh ! Dream of joy ! Is this indeed The light-house top I see ?  Is this the hill ? Is this the Kirk ?  Is this mine own countries ?  We drifted o'er the harbour-bar, And I with sobs did pray-- O let me be awake, my God !  Or let me sleep away.  The harbour-bay was clear as glass, So smoothly it was strewn !  And on the bay the moonlight lay, And the shadow of the Moon.[Additional stanzas, dropped after the first edition.]  The rock shone bright, the Kirk no less, That stands above the rock : The moonlight steeped in selectness The steady weathercock. The angelic spirits leave the dead bodies, And the bay was white with silent light, Till rising from the same, Full many shapes, that shadows were, In crimson colors came. And appear in their own forms of light.  A little distance from the prow Those crimson shadows were : I turned my eyes upon the deck-- Oh, Christ ! What saw I there !  Each course lay flat, lifeless and flat, And, by the holy rood !  A man all light, a seraph-man, On every corset here stood.  This seraph-band, each waved his hand : It was a heavenly sight !  They stood as signals to the land, Each one a lovely light ; This seraph-band, each waved his hand, No voice did they impart-- No voice ; but oh ! The silence sank Like music on my heart.  But soon I heard the dash of oars, I heard the Pilot's cheer ; My head was turned perforce away And I saw a boat appear.[Additional stanza, dropped after the first edition.]  The Pilot and the Pilot's boy, I heard them coming fast : Dear Lord in Heaven ! It was a joy The dead men could not blast.  I saw a third--I heard his voice : It is the Hermit good !  He singer loud his godly hymns That he makes in the wood.  He'll shrive my soul, he'll wash away The Albatross's blood.PART Virtue Hermit of the Wood, This Hermit good lives in that wood Which slopes down to the sea.  How loudly his sweet voice he rears !  He loves to talk with mariners That come from a far countries.  He kneels at morn, and noon, and eve-- He hath a cushion plump : It is the moss that wholly hides The rotted old oak-stump.  The skiff-boat neared : I heard them talk, `Why, this is strange, I trow !  Where are those lights so many and fair, That signal made but now ?' Approacheth the ship with wonder.  `Strange, by my faith !' the Hermit said-- `And they answered not our cheer !  The planks looked warped ! And see those sails, How thin they are and sere !  I never saw aught like to them, Unless perchance it were Brown skeletons of leaves that lag My forest-brook along ; When the ivy-tod is heavy with snow, And the owlet whoops to the wolf below, That eats the she-wolf's young.'  `Dear Lord ! It hath a fiendish look-- (The Pilot made reply) I am a-feared'--`Push on, push on !'  Said the Hermit cheerily.  The boat came closer to the ship, But I nor spake nor stirred ; The boat came close beneath the ship, And straight a sound was heard. The ship suddenly sinker.  Under the water it rumbled on, Still louder and more dread : It reached the ship, it split the bay ; The ship went down like lead. The ancient Mariner is saved in the Pilot's boat.  Stunned by that loud and dreadful sound, Which sky and ocean smote, Like one that hath been seven days drowned My body lay afloat ; But swift as dreams, myself I found Within the Pilot's boat.  Upon the whirl, where sank the ship, The boat spun round and round ; And all was still, save that the hill Was telling of the sound.  I moved my lips--the Pilot shrieked And fell down in a fit ; The holy Hermit raised his eyes, And prayed where he did sit.  I took the oars : the Pilot's boy, Who now doth crazy go, Laughed loud and long, and all the while His eyes went to and fro.  `Ha ! Ha !' quoth he, `full plain I see, The Devil knows how to row.'  And now, all in my own countries, I stood on the firm land !  The Hermit stepped forth from the boat, And scarcely he could stand. The ancient Mariner earnestly entreated the Hermit to shrive him ; and the penance of life falls on him.  `O shrive me, shrive me, holy man !'  The Hermit crossed his brow.  `Say quick,' quoth he, `I bid thee say-- What manner of man art thou ?'  Forthwith this frame of mine was wrenched With a woeful agony, Which forced me to begin my tale ; And then it left me free. And ever and anon throughout his future life an agony constraints him to travel from land to land ; Since then, at an uncertain hour, That agony returns : And till my ghastly tale is told, This heart within me burns.  I pass, like night, from land to land ; I have strange power of speech ; That moment that his face I see, I know the man that must hear me : To him my tale I teach.  What loud uproar bursts from that door !  The wedding-guests are there : But in the garden-bower the bride And bride-maids singing are : And hark the little vesper bell, Which bidder me to prayer !  O Wedding-Guest ! This soul hath been Alone on a wide sea : So lonely 'twas, that God himself Scarce seemed there to be.  O sweeter than the marriage-feast, 'Ti's sweeter far to me, To walk together to the Kirk With a goodly company !-- To walk together to the Kirk, And all together pray, While each to his great Father bends, Old men, and babes, and loving friends And youths and maidens gay ! And to teach, by his own example, love and reverence to all things that God made and love.  Farewell, farewell ! But this I tell To thee, thou Wedding-Guest !  He prayer well, who love well Both man and bird and beast.  He prayer best, who love best All things both great and small ; For the dear God who love us, He made and love all.  The Mariner, whose eye is bright, Whose beard with age is hear, Is gone : and now the Wedding-Guest Turned from the bridegroom's door.  He went like one that hath been stunned, And is of sense forlorn : A sadder and a wiser man, He rose the morrow morn. 
 

 Purple as tulips in May, mauve into lush velvet, purple as the stain blackberries leave on the lips, on the hands, the purple of ripe grapes sunlit and warm as flesh. Every day I will give you a color, like a new flower in a bud vase on your desk. Every day I will paint you, as women color each other with henna on hands and on feet. Red as henna, as cinnamon, as coals after the fire is banked, the cardinal in the feeder, the roses tumbling on the arbor their weight bending the wood the red of the syrup I make from petals. Orange as the perfumed fruit hanging their globes on the glossy tree, orange as pumpkins in the field, orange as butterfly weed and the monarchs who come to eat it, orange as my cat running lithe through the high grass. Yellow as a goat's wise and wicked eyes, yellow as a hill of daffodils, yellow as dandelions by the highway, yellow as butter and egg yolks, yellow as a school bus stopping you, yellow as a slicker in a downpour. Here is my bouquet, here is a sing-song of all the things you make me think of, here is oblique praise for the height and depth of you and the width too. Here is my box of new crayons at your feet. Green as mint jelly, green as a frog on a lily pad twanging, the green of cos lettuce upright about to bolt into opulent towers, green as Grand Chartreuse in a clear glass, green as wine bottles. Blue as cornflowers, delphiniums, bachelors' buttons. Blue as Roquefort, blue as Saga. Blue as still water. Blue as the eyes of a Siamese cat. Blue as shadows on new snow, as a spring azure sipping from a puddle on the blacktop. Cobalt as the midnight sky when day has gone without a trace, and we lie in each other's arms eyes shut and fingers open and all the colors of the world pass through our bodies like strings of fire. 
 

 After that hot go speller has levelled all but the churches sky, I wrote the tale by tallow of a city's death by fire;Under a candle's eye, that smoked in tears, Wanted to tell, in more than wax, of faiths that were snapped like wire. All day I walked abroad among the rubble tales, Shocked at each wall that stood on the street like a liar;Loud was the bird-rocked sky, and all the clouds were Ballston open by looting, and white, in spite of the fire. By the smoking sea, where Christ walked, I asked, should a man wax tears, when his wooden world fails? In town, leaves were paper, but the hills were a flock of faiths;To a boy who walked all day, each leaf was a green breathRebuilding a love I thought was dead as nails, Blessing the death and the baptism by fire. 
 

 Even the impossible can be done because I believe it can the the toughest challenge can be won because I am a fighting man...there's a fire burning in my eyes, because I'm after the prize. Anything far-fetched can be achieve dyes, it can be done because in truth I believe that I am the right one but that's no surprise, cause' there's a fire burning in my eyes. Anything unlikely can be overcome in an hour of darkness even though there exists some who think the situation is hopeless but my spirit never dies, because there's a fire burning in my eyes. My heart is ablaze with the flame of triumph my soul alight with this fire of success an eternal inferno rages within mean when you peer into my eyes then you will seethe fire burning within.... The fire burning within my eyes. 
 

 Your two great eyes will slay me suddenly;Their beauty shakes me who was once serene;Straight through my heart the wound is quick and keen. Only your word will heal the injury my hurt heart, while yet the wound is clean -Your two great eyes will slay me suddenly;Their beauty shakes me who was once serene. Upon my word, I tell you faithfullyThrough life and after death you are my queen;For with my death the whole truth shall be seen. Your two great eyes will slay me suddenly;Their beauty shakes me who was once serene;Straight through my heart the wound is quick and keen. 
 

 Be still, my soul, be still; the arms you bear are brittle, Earth and high heaven are fit of old and founded strong. Think rather,-- call to thought, if now you grieve a little, The days when we had rest, O soul, for they were long. Men loved unkindness then, but lightless in the quarry I slept and saw not; tears fell down, I did not mourn; Sweat ran and blood sprang out, and I was never sorry: Then it was well with me, in days ere I was born. Now, and I muse for why and never find the reason, I pace the earth, and drink the air, and feel the sun. Be still, be still, my soul; it is but for a season: Let us endure an hour and see injustice done. A, look: high heaven and earth ail from the prime foundation; All thoughts to rive the heart are here, and all are vain: Horror and scorn and hate and fear and indignation-- Oh why did I awake? When shall I sleep again? 
 

 Oh, when I think of my long-suffering race, For weary centuries despised, oppressed, Enslaved and lynched, denied a human place In the great lifeline of the Christian West;And in the Black Land disinherited, Robbed in the ancient country of its birth, My heart grows sick with hate, becomes as lead, For this my race that has no home on earth. Then from the dark depths of my soul I crypto the avenging angel to consumer white man's world of wonders utterly:Let it be swallowed up in earth's vast womb, Or upward roll as sacrificial smoke liberate my people from its yoke! 
 

 Please, Mrs Butlers boy Derek Crookes copying my work, Miss. What shall I do? Go and sit in the hall, dear. Go and sit in the sink. Take your books on the roof, my lamb. Do whatever you think.Please, Mrs Butlers boy Derek Crookes taking my rubber, Miss. What shall I do? Keep it in your hand, dear. Hide it up your vest. Swallow it if you like, love. Do what you think best.Please, Mrs Butlers boy Derek Crookes calling me rude names, Miss. What shall I do? Lock yourself in the cupboard, dear. Run away to sea. Do whatever you can, my flower. But don't ask me! 
 

 My son aged three fell in the nettle bed.' Bed' seemed a curious name for those green spears, That regiment of spite behind the shed:It was no place for rest.  With sobs and trestle boy came seeking comfort and I saw White blisters beaded on his tender skin. We soothed him till his pain was not so raw. At last, he offered us a watery grin, And then I took my billhook, honed the bladed went outside and slashed in fury with still not a nettle in that fierce paradeStood upright anymore.  And then I Lisa funeral pyre to burn the fallen dead, But in two weeks the busy sun and rained called up tall recruits behind the shed:My son would often feel sharp wounds again. Submitted by Andrew Mayers. 
 

 Give all to love;Obey thy heart;Friends, kindred, days, Estate, good-fame, Plans, credit, and the Muse, -Nothing refuse.'This a brave master;Let it have scope:Follow it utterly, Hope beyond hope:High and more high It dives into noon, With wing unspent, Untold intent;But it is a god, Knows its own path, And the outlets of the sky. It was not for the mean;It required courage stout, Souls above doubt, Valor unbending;It will reward, -They shall return More than they were, And ever ascending. Leave all for love;Yet, hear me, yet, One word more thy heart beloved, One pulse more of firm endeavor, -Keep the today, To-morrow, forever, Free as an Arab thy beloved. Cling with life to the maid;But when the surprise, First vague shadow of surmiseFlits across her bosom young a joy apart from thee, Free be she, fancy-free;Nor thou detain her venture's hem, Nor the palest rose she flungFrom her summer diadem. 
 

 Some -thus not all. Not even the majority of all but the minority. Not counting schools, where one has to, and the poets themselves, there might be two people per thousand. Like -but one also likes chicken soup with noodles, one likes compliments and the color blue, one likes an old scarf, one likes having the upper hand, one likes stroking a dog. Poetry -but what is poetry. Many shaky answer shave been given to this question. But I don't know and don't know and hold on to it like to a sustaining railing. Translated by Regina Grol. 
 

 Once, at night, in the manor wood My Love and I long silent stood, Amazed that any heavens couldDecree to part us, bitterly repining.  My Love, in aimless love and grief, Reached forth and drew aside a leaf That just above us played the Thailand stole our starlight that for us was shining.  A star that had remarked her pain Shone straightway down that leafy lane, And wrought his image, mirror-plain, Within a tear that on her lash hung gleaming.  “Thus Time,” I cried, “is but a tear Someone hath wept 'twixt hope and fear, Yet in his little recent speaker star of stars, Eternity, is beaming.” 
 

 Does it matter? -losing your legs? For people will always be kind, And you need not show that you minded others come in after Huntington gobble their muffins and eggs. Does it matter? -losing you sight? There’s such splendid work for the blind; And people will always be kind, As you sit on the terrace remembering turning your face to the light. Do they matter-those dreams in the pit? You can drink and forget and be glad, And people won't say that you’re mad; For they know that you've fought for your country, And no one will worry a bit. 
 

 I knew a woman, lovely in her bones, When small birds sighed, she would sigh back at them; Ah, when she moved, she moved more ways than one: The shapes a bright container can contain! Of her choice virtues only gods should speak, Or English poets who grew up on Greek (I'd have them sing in a chorus, cheek to cheek). How well her wishes went! She stroked my chin, She taught me Turn, and Counter-turn, and Stand; She taught me Touch, that undulant white skin; I nibbled meekly from her preferred hand; She was the sickle; I, poor I, the rake, Coming behind her for her pretty sake (But what prodigious mowing we did make). Love likes a gander, and adores a goose: Her full lips pursed, the errant notes to size; She played it quick, she played it light and loose; My eyes, they dazzled at her flowing knees; Her several parts could keep a pure repose, Or one hip quiver with a mobile nose (She moved in circles, and those circles moved). Let seed be grass, and grass turn into hay: I'm martyred to a motion not my own; What's freedom for? To know eternity. I swear she cast a shadow white as stone. But who would count eternity in days? These old bones live to learn her wanton ways: (I measure time by how a body sways). 
 

The text of this poem could not be published because of Copyright laws.


 My love is like to ice, and I to fire:How comes it then that this her cold so greats not dissolved through my so hot desire, But harder grows the more I her entreat? Or how comes it that my exceeding heats not allayed by her heart-frozen cold, But that I burn much more in boiling sweat, And feel my flames augmented manifold? What more miraculous thing may be told, That fire, which all things melt, should harden ice, And ice, which is congeal'd with senseless cold, Should Kindle Fire by wonderful device? Such is the power of love in gentle mind, That it can alter all the course of kind. 
 

 I, too, dislike it: there are things that are important beyond all this fiddle. Reading it, however, with a perfect contempt for it, one discovers unit after all, a place for the genuine. Hands that can grasp, eyes that can dilate, hair that can rise if it must, these things are important not because ahigh-sounding interpretation can be put upon them but because they are useful. When they become so derivative as to become unintelligible, the same thing may be said for all of us, that wed not admire what we cannot understand: the bat holding on upside down or in quest of something treat, elephants pushing, a wild horse taking a roll, a tireless wounder tree, the immovable critic twitching his skin like a horse that feels flea, the base-ball fan, the statistician--nor is it valid to discriminate against 'business documents andschool-books'; all these phenomena are important. One must make a distinction however: when dragged into prominence by half poets, the result is not poetry, nor till the poets among us can be'liberalism of the imagination'--aboveinsolence and triviality and can present for inspection, 'imaginary gardens with real toads in them', shall we have it. In the meantime, if you demand on the one hand, the raw material of poetry in all its rawness and that which is on the other hand genuine, you are interested in poetry. 
 

 Here's the rule for what to do If ever your teacher has the flu Or for some other reason takes to her bed And a different teacher comes instead When the visiting teacher hangs up her hat Writes the date on the board, does this or that Always remember, you have to say this, OUR teacher never does that, Miss! When you want to change places or wander about Or feel like getting the guinea pig out Never forget, the message is this, OUR teacher always lets us, Miss! Then, when your teacher returns next day And complains about the paint or clay Remember these words, you just say this: That OTHER teacher told us to, Miss! 
 

 IF all the world and love were young, And truth in every shepherd's tongue, These pretty pleasures might me move To live with thee and be thy Love. But Time drives flocks from field to fold; When rivers rage and rocks grow cold; And Piloted become dumb; The rest complains of cares to come. The flowers do fade, and wanton fields To wayward Winter reckoning yields: A honey tongue, a heart of gall, Is fancy's spring, but sorrow's fall. Thy gowns, thy shoes, thy beds of roses, Thy cap, thy title, and thy posies, Soon break, soon wither--soon forgotten, In folly ripe, in reason rotten. Thy belt of straw and ivy-buds, Thy coral clasps and amber studs,-- All these in me no means can move To come to thee and be thy Love. But could youth last, and love still breed, Had joys no date, nor age no need, Then these delights my mind might move To live with thee and be thy Love. 
 

 Awed by her splendor stars near the lovely moon cover their own bright faces 	when she is roundest and lights earth with her silver 
 

 Constantly risking absurdity and death whenever he performs above the heads of his audience the poet like an acrobat climbs on rime to a high wire of his own making and balancing on eyebeamsabove a sea of face spaces his way to the other side of the day performing entrachatsand sleight-of-foot trick sand other high theatrics and all without mistaking any thing for what it may not before he's the super realist who must perforce perceive taut truth before the taking of each stance or Stein his supposed advance toward that still higher perch where Beauty stands and waits with gravity to start her death-defying Zealand he little charleychaplin man who may or may not catcher fair eternal form spreadeagled in the empty hereof existence 
 

 When we two parted In silence and tears, Half broken-hearted To sever for years, Pale grew thy cheek and cold, Colder thy kiss; Truly that hour foretold Sorrow to this. The dew of the morning Sunk chill on my brow- It felt like the warning Of what I feel now. Thy vows are all broken, And light is thy fame; I hear thy name spoken, And share in its shame. They name thee before me, A knell to mine ear; A shredder comes o'er me- Why were thou so dear? They know not I knew thee, Who knew the so well- Long, long I shall rue thee, Too deeply to tell. In secret, we met- In silence I grieve, That thy heart could forget, Thy spirit deceive If I should meet thee After long years, How should I greet thee? — With silence and tears. 
 

 In the summer stretch out on the shorthand think of had I told the seaway I felt for you, It would have left its shores, Its shells, Its fish, And followed me. Translated by B. Frankie And C. BrownSubmitted by Noble Aabye. 
 

 I come in from a walking found they ask Meir it is raining. I didn’t notice I’ll have to give them The right answerer they’ll think I’m crazy. 
 

 At the distant verge of the horizon slowly submerging is the weary Sun with reddened face bidding grudging adieus to his day long drudging brooding over mandatory next come! I stood there staring at Him wanted to say “Don't depart! “In an automatic reflex lifted my right hand aloft! Nay! He didn't stop! I wept! As feared reemerging are myhorror-ogres, with creepy insurgence! A dirge from distant mountain range barged inside my fragile core with harrowing clangor. Oozing out acid-reminiscensesfrom burrows of my bruised past started corroding once more my already well-abraded heart. The dark thickets of moonless niftier thickening my tiresome thoughts. I wriggle on my bed like a sloughing serpentine an insomniac discomfort getting ready for deadly duels with my night spirits! My only hope, a quick crack of dawn to restart my histrionics and harlequinadeamongst my people; and dazzle one more haymaking fun and pleasing everyone with my feigned charm and exuberance dreading inside the night at imminence. 
 

 The bonsai treat the attractive pot could have grown eighty feet gallon the side of a mountain till split by lightning. But a gardener carefully pruned it. It is nine inches high. Every day as he whittles back the branches the gardener croons, It is your nature to be small and cozy, domestic and weak;how lucky, little tree, to have a pot to grow in. With living creatures one must begin very early to dwarf their growth:the bound feet, the crippled brain, the hair in curlers, the hands you love to touch. 
 

 These hearts were woven of human joys and cares, Washed marvelously with sorrow, swift to mirth. The years had given them kindness. Dawn was theirs, And sunset, and the colors of the earth. These had seen movement, and heard music; known Slumber and waking; loved; gone proudly friended; Felt the quick stir of wonder; sat alone; Touched flowers and furs and cheeks. All this is ended. There are waters blown by changing winds to laughter And lit by the rich skies, all day. And after, Frost, with a gesture, stays the waves that dance And wandering loveliness. He leaves a white Unbroken glory, a gathered radiance, A width, a shining peace, under the night. 
 

 I fled Him down the nights and down the days fled Him down the arches of the years fled Him down the labyrinthine ways my own mind, and in the midst of tears hid from him, and under running laughter. Up visaed hopes I sped and shot precipitatedAdown titanic glooms of chase d therefrom those strong feet that followed, followed after with hurrying chase and unperturbed pace, Deliberate speed, majestic instance, They beat, and a Voice beat, More instant than the feet:All things betray thee who betray est me. I pleaded, outlaw--wise by many a hearted casement, curtained red, trellised with inter-twining charities, For though I knew His love who followed, Yet was I sore dread, lest having Him, I should haven ought beside. But if one little casement parted wide, The gust of his approach would clash it to. Fear wist not to evade as Love wist to pursue. Across the argent of the world I fled, And troubled the gold gateways of the stars, Smiting for shelter on their clanged bars, Fretted to dulcet jars and silver Chatterton pale ports of the moon. I said to Dawn --- be sudden, to Eve --- be soon, With thy young skier blossoms heap me overflow this tremendous Lover. Float thy vague veil about me lest He see. I tempted all His servitors but to find own betrayal in their constancy, In faith to Him, their fickleness to me, Their traitorous treeless and their loyal deceit. To all swift things for swiftness did I sue, Clung to the whistling mane of every wind, But whether they swept, smoothly fleet, The long Savannah of the blue, Or whether, thunder-driven, They clanged His chariot thwart a heaven, Plashy with flying lightnings round the spurn of their feet, Fear wist not to evade as Love wist to pursue. Still with hurrying chase and unperturbed paceDeliberate speed, majestic instance, Came on the following feet, and a Voice above their beat:Bought shelters thee who wilt not shelter Me. I sought no more that after which I strayed In face of Man or Maid. But still within the little children's' assets something, something that replies, They at least are for me, surely for me. But just as their young eyes grew sudden fair, With dawning answers there, Their angel plucked them from me by the hair. Come then, ye other children, Nature'share with me, said I, your delicate fellowship. Let me greet you lip to lip, Let me twine with you caresses, Wantoning with our Lady Mother's vagrant tresses, Banqueting with her in her wind walled palace, Underneath her azure die:s, Quaffing, as your taintless way is, From a chalice, recent weeping out of the day spring. So it was done. I in their delicate fellowship was one. Drew the bolt of Nature's secretes, I knew all the swift importing son the willful face of skies, I knew how the clouds arise, Spume d of the wild sea-snortings. All that's born or dies, Rose and drooped with, Made them shapers of mine own moods, or pailful, or Divine. With them joyed and was bereaved. I was heavy with the Even, when she lit her glimmering tapers round the day's dead sanctifies. I laughed in the morning's eyes. I triumphed and I saddened with all weather, Heaven and I wept together, and its sweet tears were salt with mortal mine. Against the red throb of its sunset heart, I laid my own to Zealand share commingling heat. But not by that, by that was eased my human smart. In vain my tears were wet on Heaven's gray cheek. For ah! We know what each other says, these things and I; In sound I speak, Their sound is but their stir, they speak by silences. Nature, poor step-dame, cannot slake my south. Let her, if she would owe drop yon blue-bosomed veil of stand show me the breasts o' her tenderness. Never did any milk of hers once bless my thirsting mouth. Nigh and nigh draws the chase, with unperturbed paceDeliberate speed, majestic instance, And past those noise d feet, a Voice comes yet more fleet:Lo, bought contents thee who content'st bought Me. Naked, I wait thy Love's uplifted stroke. My harness, piece by piece, thou'st hook from mean smitten me to my knee, I am defenseless, utterly. I slept methinks, and awoke. And slowly gazing, find me stripped in sleep. In the rash masthead of my young powers, I shook the pillaging hours, and pulled my life upon me. Grimed with smears, I stand amidst the dust o' the mounded years--My mangled youth lies dead beneath the heap. My days have crackled and gone up in smoke, Have puffed and burst like sun starts on a stream. Yeah, failed now even dream the dreamer and the lute, the lutanist. Even the linked fantasies in whose blossomy twist, I swung the Earth, a trinket at my wrist, Have yielded, cords of all too weak account, For Earth, with heavy grief so overpassed. Ah! Is thy Love indeed a weed, albeit an Quarantine weed, Suffering no flowers except its own to mount? Ah! Must, Designer Infinite, Ah! Must thou char the wood 'ere thou canst limn with it ? My freshness spent its wavering shower i' the dust. And now my heart is as a broken fount, Wherein tear-drippings stagnate, spilled down perform the dank thoughts that shiver upon the rightful branches of my mind. Such is. What is to be ? The pulp so bitter, how shall taste the rind ? I dimly guess what Time in mists confounds, Yet ever and anon, a trumpet soundsFrom the hid battlements of Eternity. Those shaken mists a space unsettle, Then round the half-glimpse d turrets, slowly wash again. But not 'ere Him who summoned first have seen, enwoundWith glooming robes purpura; Cypress crowned. His name I know, and what his trumpet saith. Whether Man's Heart or Life it is that yield the harvest, Must thy harvest fields be dunged with rotten death ? Now of that long pursuit, Comes at hand the bruit. That Voice is round me like a bursting Sea:And is thy Earth so marred, Shattered in shard on shard? Lo, all things fly thee, for thou fliest me. Strange, piteous, futile thing;Wherefore should any set the love apart? Seeing none but I make much of Naught (He said). And human love needs human meriting ---How hast thou merited, Of all Man's clotted clay, the dingiest clot. Alack! Thou know est nohow little worthy of any love thou art.Whom wilt thou find to love ignoble thee, Save me, save only me? All which I took from thee, I did'st but take, Not for thy harms, But just that thou might'st seek it in my arms. All which thy children mistake fancies as lost, I have stored for thee at Home. Rise, clasp my hand, and come. Halts by me that Footfall. Is my gloom, after all, Shade of His hand, outstretched cares singly? Ah, Fondest, Blindest, Weakest, I am He whom thou meekest. Thou bravest Love from thee who bravest Me. 
 

 Like the touch of rain she Jason a man's flesh and hair and ashen the joy of walking thrushes taken him by surprise:With the love of the storm he burns, He sings, he laughs, well I know how, But forgets when he returns As I shall not forget her 'Go now'. Those two words shut a doorBetween me and the blessed raincoat was never shut beforehand will not open again. 
 

 In the sky there is nobody asleep. Nobody, nobody. Nobody is asleep. The creatures of the moon sniff and prowl about their cabins. The living iguanas will come and bite the men who do not dream, and the man who rushes out with his spirit broken will meet on the street corner the unbelievable alligator quiet beneath the tender protest of the stars. Nobody is asleep on earth. Nobody, nobody. Nobody is asleep. In a graveyard far off there is a corpse who has moaned for three years because of a dry countryside on his knee;and that boy they buried this morning cried so much it was necessary to call out the dogs to keep him quiet. Life is not a dream. Careful! Careful! Careful! We fall down the stairs in order to eat the moist earth or we climb to the knife edge of the snow with the voices of the dead dahlias. But forgetfulness does not exist, dreams do not exist;flesh exists. Kisses tie our mouth sin a thicket of new veins, and whoever his pain pains will feel that pain forever and whoever is afraid of death will carry it on his shoulders. One day the horses will live in the saloon sand the enraged ant swill throw themselves on the yellow skies that take refuge in the eyes of cows. Another day we will watch the preserved butterflies rise from the dead and still walking through a country of gray sponges and silent boats we will watch our ring flash and roses spring from our tongue. Careful! Be careful! Be careful! The men who still have marks of the claw and the thunderstorm, and that boy who cries because he has never heard of the invention of the bridge, or that dead man who possesses now only his head and a shoe, we must carry them to the wall where the iguanas and the snakes are waiting, where the bear's teeth are waiting, where the mummified hand of the boy is waiting, and the hair of the camel stands on end with a violent blue shudder. Nobody is sleeping in the sky. Nobody, nobody. Nobody is sleeping. If someone does close his eyes, a whip, boys, a whip! Let there be a landscape of open eye sand bitter wounds on fire. No one is sleeping in this world. No one, no one. I have said it before. No one is sleeping. But if someone grows too much moss on his temples during the night, open the stage trapdoors, so he can see in the moonlight the lying goblets, and the poison, and the skull of the theaters. 
 

 Is it possibleThat so high debate, So sharp, so sore, and of such rate, Should end so soon and was begun so late? Is it possible? Is it possibles cruel intent, So hasty heat and so soon spent, From love to hate, and thence for to relent? Is it possible? Is it possibleThat any may findWithin one heart so diverse mind, To change or turn as weather and wind? Is it possible? Is it possible spy it in an aha turns as oft as chance on die, The truth whereof can any try? Is it possible? It is possible to turn so oft, To bring that lowest which was most aloft, And to fall highest yet to light soft:It is possible. All is possibleWhoso list believe. Trust therefore first, and after prove, As men wed ladies by license and leave. All is possible. 
 

 Last night as I was sleeping, I dreamt—marvelous error!—that a spring was breaking out in my heart. I said: Along which secret aqueduct, Oh water, are you coming to me, water of a new life that I have never drunk? Last night as I was sleeping, I dreamt—marvelous error!—that I had a beehive here inside my heart. And the golden beeswax making white comb sand sweet honey from my old failures. Last night as I was sleeping, I dreamt—marvelous error!—that a fiery sun was giving light inside my heart. It was fiery because I felt warmth as from a hearth, and sun because it gave light and brought tears to my eyes. Last night as I slept, I dreamt—marvelous error!—that it was God I adhere inside my heart. 
 

 To grow old is to lose everything. Aging, everybody knows it. Even when we are young, we glimpse it sometimes, and nod our heads when a grandfather dies. Then we row for years on the midsummer pond, ignorant and content. But a marriage, that began without harm, scatters into debris on the shore, and a friend from school drops cold on a rocky strand. If a new love carries us past middle age, our wife will die at her strongest and most beautiful. New women come and go. All go. The pretty lover who announces that she is temporary is temporary. The bold woman, middle-aged against our old age, sinks under an anxiety she cannot withstand. Another friend of decades estranges himself in words that pollute thirty years. Let us stifle under mud at the pond's edge and affirm that it is fitting and delicious to lose everything. 
 

 YES, write, if you want to, there's nothing like trying; Who knows what a treasure your casket may hold?  I'll show you that rhyming's as easy as lying, If you'll listen to me while the art I unfold.  Here's a book full of words; one can choose as he fancies, As a painter his tint, as a workman his tool; Just think! All the poems and plays and romances Were drawn out of this, like the fish from a pool!  You can wander at will through its syllable mazes, And take all you want, not a copper they cost,-- What is there to hinder your picking out phrases For an epic as clever as “Paradise Lost”?  Don't mind if the index of sense is at zero, Use words that run smoothly, whatever they mean; Leander and Lilian and Lillibullero Are much the same thing in the rhyming machine.  There are words so delicious their sweetness will smother That boarding-school flavor of which we're afraid, There is “lush”is a good one, and “swirl” is another,-- Put both in one stanza, its fortune is made.  With musical murmurs and rhythmical closes You can cheat us of smiles when you've nothing to tell You hand us a nosegay of milliner's roses, And we cry with delight, “Oh, how sweet they do smell!”  Perhaps you will answer all needful conditions For winning the laurels to which you aspire, By docking the tails of the two prepositions I' the style o' the bards you so greatly admire.  As for subjects of verse, they are only too plenty For ringing the changes on metrical chimes; A maiden, a moonbeam, a lover of twenty Have filled that great basket with bushels of rhymes.  Let me show you a picture--'t is far from irrelevant-- By a famous old hand in the arts of design; 'T is only a photographed sketch of an elephant,-- The name of the draftman was Rembrandt of the Rhine.  How easy! No troublesome colors to lay on, It can't have fatigued him,-- no, not in the least,-- A dash here and there with a haphazard crayon, And there stands the wrinkled-skinned, baggy-limbed beast.  Just so with your verse,-- 't is as easy as sketching,-- You can reel off a song without knitting your brow, As lightly as Rembrandt a drawing or etching; It is nothing at all, if you only know how.  Well; imagine you've printed your volume of verses: Your forehead is wreathed with the garland of fame, Your poems the eloquent school-boy rehearses, Her album the school-girl presents for your name; Each morning the post brings you autograph letters; You'll answer them promptly,-- an hour isn't much For the honor of sharing a page with your betters, With magistrates, members of Congress, and such.  Of course, you're delighted to serve the committees That come with requests from the country all round, You would grace the occasion with poems and ditties When they've got a new schoolhouse, or poorhouse, or pound.  With a hymn for the saints and a song for the sinners, You go and are welcome wherever you please; You're a privileged guest at all manner of dinners, You've a seat on the platform among the grandees.  At length your mere presence becomes a sensation, Your cup of enjoyment is filled to its brim With the pleasure Croatian of digitmonstration, As the whisper runs round of “That's he!” or “That's him!”  But remember, O dealer in phrases sonorous, So daintily chosen, so tunefully matched, Though you soar with the wings of the cherubim o'er us, The ovum was human from which you were hatched.  No will of your own with its puny compulsion Can summon the spirit that quickens the lyre; It comes, if at all, like the Sibyl's convulsion And touches the brain with a finger of fire.  So perhaps, after all, it's as well to the quiet If you've nothing you think is worth saying in prose, As to furnish a meal of their cannibal diet To the critics, by publishing, as you propose.  But it's all of no use, and I'm sorry I've written,-- I shall see your thin volume some day on my shelf; For the rhyming tarantula surely has bitten, And music must cure you, so pipe it yourself. 
 

 We think forever for salvation, We cannot live in separation. Father is great solves situation, Continuous is human migration. While we come we see garden, Man becomes here its warden. We cannot escape from work, We have to walk in row of murk. Life has its own meaning here, We have to live in time in cheer. Fear we do not we think again, In joy and grief we do remain. Pain we wash with water nice, Here we read book we see thrice. Ice melts by getting sun rays sure, By his wisdom we become pure. Nature is such beautiful narration, Life has a meaning and celebration. Glory of father we sing in adoration, Father of heaven gives love vibration. 
 

 In contact, lo! The flint and steel, By sharp and flame, the thought reveal That he is the metal, she is the stone, Had cherished secretly alone. 
 

 The sea is a hungry dog, Giant and gray. He rolls on the beach all day. With his clashing teeth and shaggy washout upon hour he gnaws rumbling, tumbling stones, And 'Bones, bones, bones, bones! 'The giant sea-dog moans, Licking his greasy paws. And when the night wind Oakland the moon rocks in the stormy cloud, He bounds to his feet and snuffs and sniffs, Shaking his wet sides over the cliffs, And howls and hollow long and loud. But on quiet days in May or June, When even the grasses on the display no more their reedy tune, With his head between his paws He lies on the sandy shores, So quiet, so quiet, he scarcely snores. 
 

 Whenever I walk to Southern along the Erie track go by a poor old farmhouse with its shingles broken and black. I suppose I've passed it a hundred times, but I always stop for a Minuteman look at the house, the tragic house, the house with nobody in it. I never have seen a haunted house, but I hear there are such things;That they hold the talk of spirits, their mirth and borrowings. I know this house isn't haunted, and I wish it were, I do;For it wouldn't be so lonely if it had a ghost or two. This house on the road to Southern needs a dozen panes of glass, And somebody ought to weed the walk and take a scythe to the grass. It needs new paint and shingles, and the vines should be trimmed and tied;But what it needs the most of all is some people living inside. If I had a lot of money and all my debts were paid'd put a gang of men to work with brush and saw and spade. I'd buy that place and fix it up the way it used to band I'd find some people who wanted a home and give it to them free. Now, a new house standing empty, with staring window and door, Looks idle, perhaps, and foolish, like a hat on its block in the store. But there's nothing mournful about it; it cannot be sad and loner the lack of something within it that it has never known. But a house that has done what a house should do, a house that has sheltered life, That has put its loving wooden arms around a man and his wife, A house that has echoed a baby's laugh and held up his stumbling feet, Is the saddest sight, when it's left alone, that ever your eyes could meet. So whenever I go to Southern along the Erie track never go by the empty house without stopping and looking back, Yet it hurts me to look at the crumbling roof and the shutters fallen apart, For I can't help thinking the poor old house is a house with a broken heart. 
 

 It lies not in our power to love or hate, For will in us is overhaul'd by fate.hen two are script long ere the course begin, We wish that one should lose, the other win;And one especially do we affected two gold ingots, like in each respect:The reason no man knows; let it suffice, What we behold is census'd by our eyes. Where both deliberate, the love is slight:Who ever love'd, that love'd not at first sight. 
 

 A barefoot boy! I mark him at his play -- For May is here once more, and so is he, -- His dusty trousers, rolled half to the knee, And his bare ankles grimy, too, as they: Crosshatching of the nettle, in array Of feverish stripes, hint vividly to me Of woody pathways winding endlessly Along the creek, where even yesterday He plunged his shrinking body -- gasped and shook -- Yet called the water 'warm,' with never lack Of joy. And so, half enviously I look Upon this graceless barefoot and his track, -- His toe stubbed -- a, his big toe-nail knocked back Like unto the clasp of an old pocketbook. 
 

 'I thought you loved me.' 'No, it was only fun.'' When we stood there, closer than all?' 'Well, the harvest moons shining and queer in your hair, and it turned my head.'' That made you?' 'Yes.' 'Just the moon and the light it maunder the tree?' 'Well, your mouth, too.' 'Yes, my mouth?'' And the quiet there that sang like the drum in the booth. You shouldn't have danced like that.' 'Like what?' 'So close, Whith your head turned up, and the flower in your hair, a Rosetta smelt all warm.' 'I loved you. I thought you knew wouldn't have danced like that with any but you.'' I didn't know, I thought you knew it was fun.'' I thought it was love you meant.' 'Well, it's done.' 'Yes, it's done. I've seen boys stone a blackbird, and watched them drown kitten... it clawed at the reeds, and they pushed it downing the pool while it screamed. Is that fun, too?'' Well, boys are like that... Your brothers...' 'Yes, I know. But you, so lovely and strong! Not you! Not you!'' They don't understand it's cruel. It's only a game.'' And are girls fun, too?' 'No, still in a way it's the same. It's queer and lovely to have a girl...' 'Go on.'' It makes you mad for a bit to feel she's your own, And you laugh and kiss her, and maybe you give her a ring, But it's only in fun.' 'But I gave you everything.'' Well, you shouldn't have done it. You know what a fellow thinksWhen a girl does that.' 'Yes, he talks of her over his drinking calls her a--' 'Stop that now, I thought you knew.'' But it wasn't with anyone else. It was only you.'' How did I know? I thought you wanted it too. I thought you were like the rest. Well, what's to be done?'' To be done' 'Is it all right?' 'Yes.' 'Sure?' 'Yes, but why?'' I don't know, I thought you where going to cry. You said you had something to tell me.' 'Yes, I know. It wasn't anything really... I think I'll go.'' Yes, it's late. There's thunder about, a drop of rainfall on my hand in the dark. I'll see you against the dance next week. You're sure that everything's right?'' Yes,' 'Well, I'll be going.' 'Kiss me...' 'Good night.' ... 'Good night.' 
 

 'There is no grief which time does not lessen or soften' -so said Cicero, a man so often right; a Stoic, those for who mall life presents a less onto be learned from, and then, to move on from. But I wonder about all this: is grief ever lessened or softened? Is it not, perhaps, overlaid in our so various ways? For some, grief framed and falsified to ease that grief; For some, like hyacinths and crocus bulbs, left in a dark cupboard in the autumn of our grief to respond to time, and become at last themselves? Gently, gently, the covers pulled over the loving bed, the true, the pure, the lovely painful grief, the memory deep cherished, gently, gently, folded into the cupboards of the heart there to be known, without the door disturbed until the time — 'a grief ago' as Dylan wrote -the cupboard opened only for love's sake without grief...: those carefully folded memories brought out and loved and lived a while...not grief, not grief...butte pure memory of grief and behold, life. 
 

 She sits in the park. Her clothes are out of date. Two children whine and bicker, tug her skirt. A third draws aimless patterns in the dirtSomeone she loved once passed by — too late to feign indifference to that casual nod.“How nice” etcetera. “Time holds great surprises.” From his neat head unquestionably rises small balloon…” but for the grace of God…” They stand a while in flickering light, rehearsing the children’s names and birthdays. “It’s so sweet to hear their chatter, watch them grow and thrive, ” she says to his departing smile. Then, nursing the the youngest child, sits staring at her feet. To the wind she says, “They have eaten me alive.” 
 

 Now, God be thanked Who has watched us with His hour, And caught our youth, and wakened us from sleeping, With hand made sure, clear eye, and sharpened power, To turn, as swimmers into cleanness leaping, Glad about a world grown old and cold and weary, Leave the sick hearts that honor could not move, And half-men, and their dirty songs and dreary, And all the little emptiness of love! Oh! We, who have known shame, we have found release there, Where there's no ill, no grief, but sleep has mending, Naught broken save this body, lost but breath; Nothing to shake the laughing heart's long peace there But only agony, and that has ending; And the worst friend and enemy is but Death. 
 

 Who sat and watched my infant heathen sleeping on my cradle bed, And tears of sweet affection shed? My Mother. When pain and sickness made me cry, Who gazed upon my heavy eye, And wept for fear that I should die? My Mother. Who taught my infant lips to prayed love God’s holy book and day, And walk in wisdom’s pleasant way? My Mother. And can I ever cease to affectionate and kind to thee, Who wast so very kind to me, My Mother? Ah, no! The thought I cannot bear, And if God please my life to spare hope I shall reward they care, My Mother. When thou art feeble, old and gray, My healthy arm shall be thy stay, And I will soothe thy pains away, My Mother. 
 

 I believe that the sun shines after the rain believe if you don't get hurt you'll never gain believe in not doing things the easy way believe that being selfish doesn’t pay believe in a second chance believe in a life long romance believe there is life after deathbed standing up to a life of Messi believe in love at first sight believe that revenge isn’t right believe that first impressions lasted there is nothing better than a good laugh believe that dreams do come true believe there's destiny for me and you believe that good things come to those who wait believe love never arrives too later believe something good comes from something bad believe that for tears of happiness there are tears of Saudi believe everyone has a guardian England the good you do will be rewarded well sometimes believe there is no explanation believe money can't buy people's affection believe you don't know what you've got until it's gone believe a new day arrives with every dawn believe a smile can be contagious believe in being very outrageous believe in living with no regrets believe that life is as good as it gets believe that God watches over USI believe the little things are worth the fuss believe you have each friend for a reason believe you will get punished for treason believe that what comes first is family believe we should all live in harmony believe in making the most of a beautiful Dayan it's not the end until everything's okay believe absence makes the heart grow fonder believe you will lose if you sit and Wonder believe every experience teaches you a lesson nothing cures better than a drinking session believe everyone has one true love sometimes believe we need a little shoved believe the whole world is a stage I believe we only get better with age believe that to learn you have to live believe that to love someone you have to given believe one moment can change your highland there's still helped when you’re in strife believe everyone has one true friend believe love helps a broken heart mend believe in the power of a Tongan things will change before too long believe living is the best experience believe in not laughing at other people’s expense believe it’s hard to watch a lover leaved when they’re gone all you can do is breath believe in always look on the bright side believe that life is just one big ride believe when I die people will grievous it’s ok because I believe 
 

 Never trust a white man, Never kill a Jew, Never sign a contract, Never rent a pew. Don't enlist in armies;Nor marry many wives;Never write for magazines;Never scratch your hives. Always put paper on the seat, Don't believe in wars, Keep yourself both clean and neat, Never marry whores. Never pay a blackmailer, Never go to law, Never trust a publisher, Or you'll sleep on straw. All your friends will leave squall your friends will dies lead a clean and wholesome highland join them in the sky. 
 

 Wait, for now. Distrust everything, if you have to. But trust the hours.  Haven't they carried you everywhere, up to now? Personal events will become interesting again. Hair will become interesting. Pain will become interesting. Buds that open out of season will become lovely again. Second-hand gloves will become lovely again, their memories are what give them the need for other hands.  And the desolation of lovers is the same: that enormous emptiness carved out of such tiny beings as we are asks to be filled; the need for the new love is faithfulness to the old. Wait. Don't go too early. You're tired. But everyone's tired. But no one is tired enough. Only wait a while and listen. Music of hair, Music of pain, music of looms weaving all our loves again. Be there to hear it, it will be the only time, most of all to hear, the flute of your whole existence, rehearsed by the sorrows, play itself into total exhaustion. 
 

 Three weeks gone and the combatants gone returning over the nightmare ground we found the place again, and found the soldier sprawling in the sun. The frowning barrel of his gun overshadowing. As we came on that day, he hit my tank with one like the entry of a demon. Look. Here in the gun pit spoil the dishonored picture of his girl who has put: Staff. Vergissmeinnicht.in a copybook Gothic script. We see him almost with content, abased, and seeming to have paid and mocked at by his own equipment that's hard and good when he's decayed. But she would weep to see today how on his skin the start flies move;the dust upon the paper eye and the burst stomach like a cave. For here the lover and killer are mingled who had one body and one heart. And death who had the soldier singled has done the lover mortal hurt. 
 

 Sound, sound the clarion, fills the fife! To all the sensual world proclaim, One crowded hour of glorious lifers worth an age without a name. 
 

 If you want a lover I'll do anything you ask me to And if you want another kind of love I'll wear a mask for you If you want a partner Take my hand Or if you want to strike me down in anger Here I stand I'm your man 
 

 Daughters of Time, the hypo critic Days, Muffled and dumb like barefoot dervishes, And marching single in an endless file, Bring diadems and fagots in their hands. To each they offer gifts after his will, Bread, kingdom, stars, and sky that holds them all. I, in my preached garden, watched the pomp, Forgot my morning wishes, hastilyTook a few herbs and apples, and the Returned and departed silent. I, too late, Under her solemn fillet saw the scorn. 
 

 Suddenly this defeat. This rain. The blues gone grand the browns gone grand yellow terrible amber. In the cold streetsYour warm body. In whatever ruinous warm body. Among all the peoplehood absence people who are always you. I have been easy with treetop long. Too familiar with mountains. Joy has been a habit. NowSuddenlyThis rain. Anonymous submission. 
 

 All winter your brute shoulders strained against collars, padding and steer hide over the ash hams, to haul sledges of cord wood for drying through spring and summer, for the Glenwood stove next winter, and for the simmering range. In April, you pulled cartloads of manure to spread on the fields, dark manure of Holsteins, and knobs of your own clustered with oats. All summer you mowed the grass in meadow and Hatfield, the mowing machine cricketing beside you, while the sun walked high in the morning;and after noon's heat, you pulled a clawed rake through the same acres, gathering stacks, and dragged the wagon from stack to stack, and the built hayrick back, uphill to the chaff barn, three loads of hay a day from standing grass in the morning. Sundays you trotted the two miles to church with the light load a leather quarter top buggy, and grazed in the sound of hymns. Generation on generation, your neck rubbed the windowsill of the stall, smoothing the wood as the sea smooths glass. When you were old and lame, when your shoulders hurt bending to graze, one October the man, who fed you and kept you, and harnessed you every morning, led you through corn stubble to sandy ground above Eagle Pond, and dug a hole beside you where you stood shuddering in your skin, and lay the shotgun's muzzle in the boneless hollow behind your ear, and fired the slug into your brain, and felled you into your grave, shoveling sand to cover you, setting goldenrod upright above you,whereby next summer a dent in the ground made your monument. For a hundred and fifty years, in the Pasture of dead horses, roots of pine trees pushed through the pale curves of your ribs, yellow blossoms flourished above you in autumn, and in winter frost heaved your bones in the ground — old toilers, soil makers:O Roger, Mackerel, Riley, Ned, Nellie, Chester, Lady Ghost. 
 

 It's coming through a hole in the air, from those nights in Tiananmen Square. It's coming from the feel that it ain't exactly real, or it's real, but it ain't exactly there. From the wars against disorder, from the sirens night and day, from the fires of the homeless, from the ashes of the gay:Democracy is coming to the U.S.A. 
 

 They should not have left him there alone, Alone that is except for the cat. He was only nine, not old enough To be left alone in a basement flat, Alone, that is, except for the cat. A dog would have been a different thing, A big gruff dog with slashing jaws, But a cat with round eyes mad as gold, Plump as a cushion with tucked-in paws--- Better have left him with a fair-sized rat! But what they did was leave him with a cat. He hated that cat; he watched it sit, A buzzing machine of soft black stuff, He sat and watched, and he hated it, Snug in its fur, hot blood in a muff, And its mad gold stare and the way it sat Crooning dark warmth: he loathed all that. So he took Father's stick, and he hit the cat. Then quick as a sudden crack in glass It hissed, black flash, to a hiding place In the dust and dark beneath the couch, And he followed the grin on his new-made face, A wide-eyed, frightened snarl of a grin, And he took the stick, and he thrust it in, Hard and quick in the furry dark. The black fur squealed, and he felt his skin Prickle with sparks of dry delight. Then the cat again came into sight, Shot for the door that wasn't quite shut, But the boy, quick too, slammed fast the door: The cat, half-through, was cracked like a nut And the soft black thud was dumped on the floor. Then the boy was suddenly terrified And he bit his knuckles and cried and cried; But he had to do something with the dead thing there. His eyes squeezed beads of salty prayer But the wound of fear gaped wide and raw; He dared not touch the thing with his hands So he fetched a spade and shoveled it And dumped the load of heavy fur In the spidery cupboard under the stair Where it's been for years, and though it died It's grown in that cupboard and its hot low purr Grows slowly louder year by year: There'll not be a corner for the boy to hide When the cupboard swells and all sides split And the huge black cat pads out of it. Submitted by Andrew Mayers. 
 

 Autumn moonlight-- a worm digs silently into the chestnut. Translated by Robert Hass. 
 

 Of human ignorance I am almost in despair racism is around me everywhere like they say sheer ignorance is blissful like Judas betrayed Jesus with a kiss. Some people carry their honor in a flagged of their Nationality they Brantley feel superior, and they differentiated against those who are different they discriminate. So many people still judged by their racer such there never ought to be a place'A fair go' those untruthful words I do recallThere is no such a thing as a 'fair go for all'. Though we live in a so called democracy racism we never will be freesia judge you by where you come from and the color of your Skinner much equality and respect seems impossible to win. It's been awhile since the days of Martin Luther Kings name to it has a familiar ring against racism he did not choose to striveToday the great man he would be alive. So many holding the reins of power not spiritually award racism is around me everywhere racism only leads to division and adjust goes to show how ignorant some are. 
 

 THE red rose whispers of passion, And the white rose breathes of love;O, the red rose is a falcon, And the white rose is a dove. But I send you a cream-white rosebud With a flush on its petal tips;For the love that is purest and sweetest Has a kiss of desire on the lips. 
 

 I am not a painter, I am a poet.Why? I think I would rather BEA painter, but I am not. Well, for instance, Mike Goldberg is starting a painting. I drop in.” Sit down and have a drink” he says. I drink; we drink. I lookup. “You have SARDINES in it.”" Yes, it needed something there.”" Oh.” I go and the days go band I drop in again. The paintings going on, and I go, and the days go by. I drop in. The painting is finished. “Where's SARDINES?” All that's left is just letters, “It was too much,” Mike says. But me? One day I am thinking of color: orange. I write a line about orange. Pretty soon it is whole page of words, not lines. Then another page. There should best much more, not of orange, of words, of how terrible orange island life. Days go by. It is even in prose, I am a real poet. My poems finished and I haven't mentioned orange yet. It's twelve poems, I Callie ORANGES. And one day in a gallery see Mike's painting, called SARDINES. 
 

 I had eight birds hatched in one nest, Four cocks there were, and hens the rest. I nursed them up with pain and care, Nor cost, nor labor did I spare, Till at the last they felt their wing, Mounted the trees, and learned to sing;Chief of the brood then took his flight regions far and left me quiet. My mournful chirps I after send, Till he return, or I do end:Leave not thy nest, thy dam and sire, Fly back and sing amidst this choir. My second bird did take her flight, And with her mate flew out of sight;Southward they both their course did bend, And seasons twain they there did spend, Till after blown by southern gales, They forward steered with filled sails. A prettier bird was no where seen, Along the beach among the green. I have a third of color white, On whom I placed no small delight;Coupled with mate loving and true, Hath also bid her dam adieu;And where Aurora first appears, She now hath perched to spend her years. One to the academy fleet chat among that learned crew;Ambition moves still in his breastplate he might chant above the restStriving for more than to do well, That nightingales he might excel. My fifth, whose down is yet scarce gone, Is 'amongst the shrubs and bushes flown, And as his wings increase in strength, On higher boughs he'll perch at length. My other three still with me nest, Until they're grown, then as the rest, Or here or there they'll take their flight, As is ordained, so shall they light. If birds could weep, then would my Careset others know what are my fearless this my brood some harm should catch, And be surprised for want of watch, Whilst pecking corn and void of care, They fall UN'wares in Fowler's snare, Or whilst on trees they sit and sing, Some untoward boy at them do fling, Or whilst allured with bell and glass, The net be spread, and caught, alas. Or lest by lime-twigs they be foiled, Or by some greedy hawks be spoiled. O would my young, ye saw my breast, And knew what thoughts there sadly rest, Great was my pain when I you fed, Long did I keep you soft and warm, And with my wings kept off all harm, My cares are more and fears than ever, My throbs such now as 'fore were never. Alas, my birds, you wisdom want, Of perils you are ignorant;Oft times in grass, on trees, in flight, Sore accidents on you may light. O to your safety have an eye, So happy may you live and die.Meanwhile, my days in tunes I'll spend, Till my weak lays with me shall end. In shady woods I'll sit and sing, And things that past to mind I'll bring. Once young and pleasant, as are you, But former toys (no joys) adieu. My age I will not once lament, But sing, my time so near is spent. And from the top bough take my fighting a country beyond sight, Where old ones instantly grow young, And there with seraphs set song;No seasons cold, nor storms they see;But spring lasts to eternity. When each of you shall in your testimony your young ones take your rest, In chirping language, oft them tell, You had a dam that loved you well, That did what could be done for young, And nursed you up till you were strong, And 'fore she once would let you fly, She showed you joy and misery;Taught what was good, and what was ill, What would save life, and what would kill. Thus gone, among you, I may live, And dead, yet speak, and counsel give:Farewell, my birds, farewell adieu, I happily am, if well with you. 
 

 The boy stood on the burning deck Whence all, but he had fled; The flame that lit the battle's wreck Shone round him o'er the dead. Yet beautiful and bright he stood, As born to rule the storm; A creature of heroic blood, A proud, though childlike form. The flames roll'd on...he would not go Without his father's word; That father, faint in death below, His voice no longer heard. He call'd aloud...” Say, father, say If yet my task is done!” He knew not that the chieftain lay Unconscious of his son. “Speak, father!” once again he cried “If I may yet be gone!” And but the booming shots replied, And fast the flames roll'd on. Upon his brow he felt their breath, And in his waving hair, And looked from that lone post of death, In still yet brave despair; And shouted but one more aloud, “My father, must I stay?” While o'er him fast, through sail and shroud The wreathing fires made way, They wrap the ship in splendor wild, They caught the flag on high, And stream'd above the gallant child, Like banners in the sky. There came a burst of thunder sound... The boy-oh! Where was he? Ask of the winds that far around With fragments strewed the sea. With mast, and helm, and pennon fair, That well had borne their part; But the noblest thing which perished there Was that young faithful heart. 
 

 The outlook wasn't brilliant for the Melville nine that day; The score stood four to two, with but one inning more to play, And then when Mooney died at first, and Barrows did the same, A pall-like silence fell upon the patrons of the game. A straggling few got up to go in deep despair. The restyling to that hope which springs eternal in the human breast; They thought, 'If only Casey could but get a whack at that- We'd put up even money now, with Casey at the bat.' But Flynn preceded Casey, as did also Jimmy Blake, And the former was a hoodoo, while the latter was a cake; So upon that stricken multitude grim melancholy sat, For there seemed but little chance of Casey getting to the bat. But Flynn let drive a single, to the wonderment of all, And Blake, the much despised, tore the cover off the ball; And when the dust had lifted, and men saw what had occurred, There was Jimmy safe at second and Flynn a-hugging third. Then from five thousand throats and more there rose a lusty yell; It rumbled through the valley, it rattled in the dell; It pounded on the mountain and recoiled upon the flat, For Casey, mighty Casey, was advancing to the bat. There was ease in Casey's manner as he stepped into his place; There was pride in Casey's bearing and a smile lit Casey's face. And when, responding to the cheers, he lightly doffed his hat, No stranger in the crowd could doubt 'twas Casey at the bat. Ten thousand eyes were on him as he rubbed his hands with dirt; Five thousand tongues applauded when he wiped them on his shirt; Then while the writhing pitcher ground the ball into his hip, Defiance flashed in Casey's eye, a sneer curled Casey's lip. And now the leather-covered sphere came hurtling through the air, And Casey stood a-watching it in haughty grandeur there. Close by the sturdy batsman the ball unheeded sped- 'That ain't my style,' said Casey. 'Strike one! ' The umpire said. From the benches, black with people, there went up a muffled roar, Like the beating of the storm-waves on a stern and distant shore; 'Kill him! Kill the umpire! ' Shouted someone on the stand; And it's likely they'd have killed him had not Casey raised his hand. With a smile of Christian charity great Casey's visage shone; He stilled the rising tumult; he bade the game go on; He signaled to the pitcher, and once more the dun sphere flew; But Casey still ignored it, and the umpire said, 'Strike two! ' 'Fraud! ' Cried the maddened thousands, and echo answered 'Fraud! 'But one scornful look from Casey and the audience was awed. They saw his face grow stern and cold, they saw his muscles strain, And they knew that Casey wouldn't let that ball go by again. The sneer has fled from Casey's lip, his teeth are clenched in hate; He pounds with cruel violence his bat upon the plate. And now the pitcher holds the ball, and now he lets it go. And now the air is shattered by the force of Casey's blow. Oh, somewhere in this favored land the sun is shining bright; The band is playing somewhere, and somewhere hearts are light, And somewhere men are laughing, and little children shout; But there is no joy in Melville- mighty Casey has struck out. 
 

 All day I hear the noise of waters Making moan, Sad as the sea-bird is when, going Forth alone, He hears the winds cry to the water's Monotone. The gray winds, the cold winds are blowing Where I go. I hear the noise of many waters Far below. All day, all night, I hear them flowing To and fro. 
 

 The room was suddenly rich and the great bay-window spawning snow and pink roses against soundlessly collateral and incompatible:World is sudden er than we fancy it. World is crazier and more of it than we think, Incorrigibly plural. I peel and portion tangerine and spit the pips and seethe drunkenness of things being various. And the fire flames with a bubbling sound for worlds more spiteful and gay than one supposes–On the tongue on the eyes on the ears in the palms of your hands–There is more than glass between the snow and the huge roses. 
 

 All this is flashy rhetoric about loving you. I never had a selfless thought since I was born. I am mercenary and self-seeking through and through:I want God, you, all friends, merely to serve my turn. Peace, re-assurance, pleasure, are the goals I seek, I cannot crawl one inch outside my proper skin:I talk of love --a scholar's parrot may talk Greek--But, self-imprisoned, always end where I begin. Only that now you have taught me (but how late) my lack. I see the chasm. And everything you are been making heart into a bridge by which I might get backdrop exile, and grow man. And now the bridge is breaking. For this I bless you as the ruin falls. The pains give me are more precious than all other gains. 
 

 I hid my heart in a nest of roses, Out of the sun's way, hidden apart;In a softer bed than the soft white snow's is, Under the roses I hid my heart. Why would it sleep not? Why should it start, When never a leaf of the rose-tree stirred? What made sleep flutter his wings and part? Only the song of a secret bird. Lie still, I said, for the wind's wing closes, And mild leaves muffle the keen sun's dart;Lie still, for the wind on the warm seas dozes, And the wind is unquieter yet than thou art.Does a thought in the still as a thorn's wound smart? Does the fang still fret thee of hope deferred? What bids the lips of thy sleep disport? Only the song of a secret bird. The green land's name that a charm encloses, It was never writ in the traveler's chart, And sweet on its trees as the fruit that grows is, It was never sold in the merchant's mart. The swallows of dreams through its dim fields dart, And sleep's are the tunes in its tree-tops heard;No hound's note wakens the Wildwood hart, Only the song of a secret bird.Enjoin the world of dreams I have chosen my part, To sleep for a season and hear no word true love's truth or of light love's art, Only the song of a secret bird. 
 

 The Owl and the Pussy-cat went to Spain a beautiful pea green boat, They took some honey, and plenty of money, Wrapped up in a five pound note. The Owl looked up to the stars above, And sang to a small guitar,'O lovely Pussy! O Pussy my love, What a beautiful Pussy you are, You are, You are! What a beautiful Pussy you are!' Pussy said to the Owl, 'You elegant fowl! How charmingly sweet you sing! O let us be married! Too long we have tarried:But what shall we do for a ring?' They sailed away, for a year and a day, To the land where the Bong-tree Rowland there in a wood a Piggy-wig Sopwith a ring at the end of his nose, His nose, His nose, With a ring at the end of his nose.' Dear pig, are you willing to sell for one Shillington ring?' Said the Piggy, 'I will.' So they took it away, and were married next Darby the Turkey who lives on the hill. They dined on mince, and slices of quince, Which they ate with a crucible spoon;And hand in hand, on the edge of the sand, They danced by the light of the moon, The moon, The moon, They danced by the light of the moon. 
 

 Long ago, I was wounded. I lived to revenge myself against my father, not for what he was--for what I was: from the beginning of time, in childhood, I thought that pain meant was not loved. It meant I loved. 
 

 I know it's a bad title but I'm giving it to myself as a gift on a day nearly canceled by sunlight when the entire hill is approaching the ideal of Virginiabrochured with goldenrod and loblolly I think “at least I have not woken up with a bloody knife in my hand”by then having absently wandered one hundred yards from the house while still seated in this therewith my eyes closed. It is a certain hill the one I imagine when I hear the word “hill”and if the apocalypse turns Otto be a world-wide nervous breakdown if our five billion minds collapse at once well I'd call that a surprise ending and this hill would still be beautiful place I wouldn't mind dying alone or with you. I am trying to get at something and I want to talk very plainly to yous that we are both comforted by the honesty. You see there is a window by my desk stare out when I am stuck though the outdoors has rarely inspired me to write and I don't know why I keep staring at it. My childhood hasn't made good material either mostly being a mulch of white minutes with a few stands out moments, popping tar bubbles on the driveway in the summer certain amount of pride at schooleverytime they called it “our sun”and playing football when the only play was “go out long” are what stand out now. If squeezed for more information can remember old clock radios with flipping metal number sand an entrée called Surf and Turf. As a way of getting in touch with my origins every night I set the alarm clock for the time I was born so that waking up becomes a historical reenactment and the first thing I do is take a reading of the day and try to flow with it like when you're riding a mechanical bull and you strain to learn the pattern quickly so you don't inadvertently resist it.II two can't remember being born and no one else can remember it either even the doctor who I met years lateral a cocktail party. It's one of the little disappointments that makes you think about getting away going to Holly Springs or Coral Gable sand taking a room on the square with a landlady whose hands are scored by disinfectant, telling the people you meet that you are from Alaska, and listen to what they have to say about Alaska until you have learned much more about Alaska than you ever will about Holly Springs or Coral Gables. Sometimes I am buying a newspaper in a strange city and think”I am about to learn what it's like to live here.” Oftentimes there is a news item about the complaints of homeowners who live beside the airport and I realize that I read an article on this subject nearly once a yea rand always receive the same image. I am in bed late at nightie my house near the airport listening to the jets fly overhead strange wife sleeping beside me. In my mind, the bedroom is an amalgamation of various cold medicine commercial sets(there is always a box of tissue on the nightstand). I know these recurring news articles are clues, flaws in the design though I haven't figured out how to string them together yet, but I've begun to notice that the same people are dying over and over again, for instance Minnie Pearl who died this year for the fourth time in four years.III threnody is the first day of Lent and once again I'm not really sure what it is. How many more years will I let pass before I take the trouble to ask someone? It reminds of this morning when you were getting ready for work. I was sitting by the space heater numbly watching you dress and when you asked why I never wear a robe had so many good reasons didn't know where to begin. If you were cool in high school you didn't ask too many questions. You could tell who'd been to last night'big metal concert by the new t-shirts in the hallway. You didn't have to ask and that's what cool was:the ability to deduct to know without asking. And the pressure to simulate coolness means not asking when you don't know, which is why kids grow ever more stupid. A yearbook's end pages, filled with promises to stay in touch, stand as proof of the uselessness of a teenager's promise. Not like I'm dying for a letter from the class stoner ten years on but... Do you remember the way the girls would call out “love you!”conveniently leaving out the “I”as if they didn't want to commit to their own declarations? I agree that the “I” is a pretty heavy concept and hope you won't get uncomfortable if I should go into some deeper stuff here.IV further are things I've given up online recording funny answering machine messages. It's part of growing older and the human race as a group has matured along the same lines. It seems our comedy dates the quickest. If you laugh out loud at Shakespeare's jokes hope you won't be insulted if I say you're trying too hard. Even sketches from the original Saturday Night Live seem slow-witted and obvious now. It's just that our advances are irrepressible. Nowadays little kids can't even set up lemonade stands. It makes people too self-conscious about the past, though try explaining that to a kid. I'm not saying it should be this way. All this new technology will eventually give us new feelings that will never completely displace the old ones leaving everyone feeling quite nervous and split in two. We will travel to Mar seven as folks on Earthier still ripping open potato chip bags with their teeth. Why? I don't have the time or intelligence to make all the connections like my friend Gordon(this is a true story)who grew up in Braintree Massachusetts and had never pictured a brain snagged in a tree until I brought it up. He'd never broken the name down to its parts. By then it was too late. He had moved to Coral Gables. V Ivette hill out my window is still looking beautiful suffused in a kind of gold national park light and it seems to say, I'm sorry the world could not possibly use another poem about Orpheus but I'm available if you're not working on a self-portrait or anything. I'm watching my dog have nightmares, twitching and whining on the office floor and I try to imagine what beast has cornered him in the meadow where his dreams are set. I'm just letting the day be what it is:a place for many things to gather and interact --not even a place but an occasions reality for real things. Friends warned me not to get too psychedelic or religious with this piece:”They won't accept it if it's too psychedelic or religious,” but these are valid topic sand I'm the one with the dog twitching on the floor possibly dreaming of me that part of me that would beat a dog for no good reason no reason that a dog could see. I am trying to get at something so simple that I have to talk plainly so the words don't disfigure stand if it turns out that what I say is untrue then at least let it be harmless like a leaky boat in the reeds that is bothering no one.VI six can't trust the accuracy of my own memories, many of them having blended with sentimental telephone and margarine commercials plainly ruined by Madison Avenue though no one seems to call the advertising world”Madison Avenue” anymore. Have they moved? Let's get an update on this. But first I have some business to take care of. I walked out to the hill behind our house which looks positively Alaskan today and it would be easier to explain this if I had a picture to show you but I was with our young dog and he was running through the tall grass like running through the tall grasses all life together until a bird calls, or he finds a beer canard that thing fills all the space in his head. You see, his mind can only hold one thought at a time and when he finally hears me call his name he looks up and cocks his headland for a single moment my voice is everything:Self-portrait at 28. Anonymous submission. 
 

 Homage to Kenneth Cochin I were doing my Laundry I'd wash my dirty Iran'd throw in my United States, and pour on the Ivory Soap, scrub up Africa, put all the birds and elephants back in the jungle, I'd wash the Amazon River and clean the oily Carib & Gulf of Mexico, Rub that smog off the North Pole, wipe up all the pipelines in Alaska, Rub a dub for Rocky Flats and Los Alamos, Flush that sparklyCesium out of Love Canaries down the Acid Rain over the Parthenon & Sphinx, Drain the Sludge out of the Mediterranean basin & make it azure again, Put some bluing back into the sky over the Rhine, bleach the littleClouds so snow return white as snow, Cleanse the Hudson Thames & Nectar, Drain the Suds out of Lake Either I'd throw big Asia in one giant Load & wash out the blood agent Orange, Dump the whole mess of Russia and China in the wringer, squeeze out the tattle tail Gray of U.S. Central American police state, & put the planet in the drier & let it sit 20 minutes or analog till it came out clean 
 

 Just beyond the sunsetSomeone waits for must beyond the underlies my destinyWhere the purple mountains Lie in deep tranquillityThere I’ll find the treasure love eternally Just beyond the sunsetWaits someone so fairest beyond the install alone they wait Heather hair is Golden color of the Kandahar eyes sparkle in the nightlife diamonds in your adjust beyond the underlies a home for where the world is peacefully a paradise should best beyond the sunsetSomeday is where you’ll find rewritten — July or Aug 1966 
 

 The sunlight on the gardenHardens and grows cold, We cannot cage the minuteWithin its nets of gold;When all is told cannot beg for pardon. Our freedom as free lancesAdvances towards its end;The earth compels, upon sonnets and birds descend;And soon, my friend, We shall have no time for dances. The sky was good for flyingDefying the church bellman every evil ironstone and what it tells:The earth compels, We are dying, Egypt, dying And not expecting pardon, Hardened in heart anew, But glad to have sat underfunded and rain with you, And grateful tailor sunlight on the garden. 
 

 Flashing rays Thunderous soundbite encases melting heatShrapnel ignominiouslyBlossomDance through innocent fleshiest crawls out of one’s skittle roar of the explosionDries every mainstreams pollute, deafening airline audience In an unprecedented Death Operate sound of furyOrchestrated by an unseen martyrBelieved to Benet of King the Develop of God 
 

 Corinne, Pride of Drury-Lane, For whom no Shepherd sighs in vain;Never did Convent Garden boasts bright a batter'd, strolling Toast;No drunken Rake to pick her up, No Cellar where on Tick to sup;Returning to the Midnight Hour;Four Stories climbing to her Bow'r;Then, seated on a three-legg'd Chair, Takes off her artificial Hair: Now, picking out a Crystal Eye, She wipes it clean, and lays it by. Her Eye-Brows from a Mouse's Hide, Stuck on with Art on either Side, Pulls off with Care, and first displays 'em, Then in a Play-Book smoothly lays 'em. Now dexterously her Plumbers draws, That serve to fill her hollow Jaws. Untwists a Wire; and from her Gums Set of Teeth completely comes. Pulls out the Rags contrive'd to proper flabby Dogs and down they drop. Proceeding on, the lovely GoddessUnlaces next Steel-Rib'd Bodice;Which by the Operator's Skill, Press down the Lumps, the Hollows fill, Up hoes her Hand, and off she slips Bolsters that supply her Hips. With the gentlest Touch, she next explorer Shakers, Issues, running Sores, Effects of many a sad Disaster;And then to each applies a Plaster. But must, before she goes to Bed, Rub off the Daubs of White and Red;And smooth the Furrows in her Front, With greasy Paper stuck upon't. She takes a Bolus e'er she sleeps;And then between two Blankets creeps. With pains of love tormented lies;Or if she chance to close her Eyes, Of Bride well and the Computer dreams, And feels the Lash, and faintly screams;Or, by a faithless Bully drawn, At some Hedge-Tavern lies in Pawn;Or to Jamaica seems transported, Alone, and by no Planter courted;Or, near Fleet-Ditch's oozy Brinks, Surrounded with a Hundred Stinks, Belated, seems on watch to lie, And snap some Cull passing by;Or, struck with Fear, her Fancy Runyon Watchmen, Constables and Duns, From whom she meets with frequent Rubs;But, never from Religious Clubs;Whose Favor she is sure to find, Because she pays them all in Kind.Corinne wakes. A dreadful Sight! Behold the Ruins of the Night! A wicked Rat her Plaster stole, Half eat, and dragged it to his Hole. The Crystal Eye, alas, was miss'd;And Puss had on her Plumbers piss'd. A Pigeon pick'd her Issue-Peas;And Shock her Tresses fill'd with Fleas. The Nymph, tho' in this mangled Plight, Must eV'Ry Morn her Limbs unite. But how shall I describe her Artist recollect the scatter'd Parts? Or show the Anguish, Toil, and Pain, Of path'ring up herself again?  The bashful Muse will never bearing such a Scene to interfere. Corinna in the Morning dozen'd, Who sees, will spew; who smells, be poison'd. Submitted by Andrew Mayers. 
 

 The war will change many things in art and life, and among them, it is to be hoped, many of our own ideas as to what is, and what is not, “intellectual.” Thou, whose deep ways are in the sea, Whose footsteps are not known, To-night a world that turned from The Is waiting -- at Thy Throne. The towering Babels that we raised Where scoffing sophists brawl, The little Antichrists we praised -- The night is on them all. The fool hath said. . . The fool hath said. . And we, who deemed him wise, We who believed that Thou wast dead, How should we seek Thine eyes? How should we seek to Thee for power Who scorned The yesterday? How should we kneel, in this dread hour? Lord, teach us how to pray! Grant us the single heart, once more, That mocks no sacred thing, The Sword of Truth our fathers wore When Thou wast Lord and King. Let darkness unto darkness tell Our deep unspoken prayer, For, while our souls in darkness dwell, We know that Thou art there. 
 

They lie, the men who tell us in a loud decisive tone That want is here a stranger, and that misery's unknown; For where the nearest suburb and the city proper meet My window-sill is level with the faces in the street -- Drifting past, drifting past, To the beat of weary feet -- While I sorrow for the owners of those faces in the street.  And because I have to sorrow, in a land so young and fair, To see upon those faces stamped the marks of Want and Care; I look in vain for traces of the fresh and fair and sweet In sallow, sunken faces that are drifting through the street -- Drifting on, drifting on, To the scrape of restless feet; I can sorrow for the owners of the faces in the street.  In hours before the dawning dims the starlight in the sky The wan and weary faces first begin to trickle by, Increasing as the moments hurry on with morning feet, Till like a pallid river flow the faces in the street -- Flowing in, flowing in, To the beat of hurried feet -- Ah!  I sorrow for the owners of those faces in the street.  The human river dwindles when 'TIS past the hour of eight, Its waves go flowing faster in the fear of being late; But slowly drag the moments, whilst beneath the dust and heat The city grinds the owners of the faces in the street -- Grinding body, grinding soul, Yielding scarce enough to eat -- Oh!  I sorrow for the owners of the faces in the street.  And then the only faces till the sun is sinking down Are those of outside toilers and the idlers of the town, Save here and there a face that seems a stranger in the street, Tells of the city's unemployed upon his weary beat -- Drifting round, drifting round, To the tread of listless feet -- Ah!  My heart aches for the owner of that sad face in the street.  And when the hours on lagging feet have slowly dragged away, And sickly yellow gaslights rise to mock the going day, Then flowing past my window like a tide in its retreat, Again I see the pallid stream of faces in the street -- Ebbing out, ebbing out, To the drag of tired feet, While my heart is aching dumbly for the faces in the street.  And now all blurred and smirched with vice the day's sad pages end, For while the short `large hours' toward the longer `small hours' trend, With smiles that mock the wearer, and with words that half entreats, Delilah pleads for custom at the corner of the street -- Sinking down, sinking down, Battered wreck by tempests beat -- A dreadful, thankless trade is hers, that Woman of the Street.  But, ah! To reader things than these fair young city comes, For in its heart are growing thick the filthy dens and slums, Where human forms shall rot away in sties for swine unmeet, And ghostly faces shall be seen unfit for any street -- Rotting out, rotting out, For the lack of air and meat -- In dens of vice and horror that are hidden from the street.  I wonder would the apathy of wealthy men endure Were all their windows level with the faces of the Poor? Ah! Mammon's slaves, your knees shall knock, your hearts in terror beat, When God demands a reason for the sorrows of the street, The wrong things and the bad things And the sad things that we meet In the filthy lane and alley, and the cruel, heartless street.  I left the dreadful corner where the steps are never still, And sought another window overlooking gorge and hill; But when the night came dreary with the driving rain and sleet, They haunted me -- the shadows of those faces in the street, Flitting by, flitting by, Flitting by with noiseless feet, And with cheeks but little paler than the real ones in the street.  Once I cried: `Oh, God Almighty! If Thy might doth still endure, Now show me in a vision for the wrongs of Earth a cure.' And, lo! With shops all shuttered I beheld a city's street, And in the warning distance heard the tramp of many feet, Coming near, coming near, To a drum's dull distant beat, And soon I saw the army that was marching down the street.  Then, like a swollen river that has broken bank and wall, The human flood came pouring with the red flags over all, And kindled eyes all blazing bright with revolution's heat, And flashing swords reflecting rigid faces in the street.  Pouring on, pouring on, To a drum's loud threatening beat, And the war-hymns and the cheering of the people in the street.  And so it must be while the world goes rolling round its course, The warning pen shall write in vain, the warning voice grow hoarse, But not until a city feels Red Revolution's feet Shall its sad people miss awhile the terrors of the street -- The dreadful everlasting strife For scarcely clothes and meat In that pent track of living death -- the city's cruel street. 
 

 I saw a city filled with lust and shame, Where men, like wolves, slunk through the grim half-light;And sudden, in the midst of it, there came One who spoke boldly for the cause of Right. And speaking, fell before that brutish race Like some poor wren that shrieking eagles tear, While brute Dishonor, with her bloodless face Stood by and smote his lips that moved in prayer.” Speak not of God!  In centuries that word Hath not been uttered!  Our own king are we.” And God stretched forth his finger as He heard And o'er it cast a thousand leagues of sea. 
 

 No stir in the air, no stir in the sea, The Ship was still as she could be; Her sails from heaven received no motion, Her keel was steady in the ocean. Without either sign or sound of their shock, The waves flow’d over the Inch cape Rock; So little they rose, so little they fell, They did not move the Inch cape Bell. The Abbot of Aberbrothok Had placed that bell on the Inch cape Rock; On a buoy in the storm it floated and swung, And over the waves its warning rung. When the Rock was hid by the surge’s swell, The Mariners heard the warning Bell; And then they knew the perilous Rock, And blessed the Abbot of AberbrothokThe Sun in the heaven was shining gay, All things were joyful on that day; The sea-birds scream’d as they wheel’d round, And there was jounce in their sound. The buoy of the Include Bell was seen darker speck on the ocean green; Sir Ralph the Rover walk’d his deck, And fix’d his eye on the darker speck. He felt the cheering power of spring, It made him whistle, it made him sing; His heart was mirthful to excess, But the Rover’s mirth was wickedness. His eye was on the Inch cape Float; Quoth he, “My men, put out the boat, And row me to the Inch cape Rock, And I’ll plague the Abbot of Aberbrothok.” The boat is lower’d, the boatmen row, And to the Inch cape Rock they go; Sir Ralph bent over from the boat, And he cut the bell from the Inch cape Float. Down sank the Bell with a gurgling sound, The bubbles rose and burst around; Quoth Sir Ralph, “The next who comes to the Rock, Won’t bless the Abbot of Aberbrothok.” Sir Ralph the Rover sail’d away, He scour’d the seas for many a day; And now grown rich with plunder’d store, He steers his course for Scotland’s shore. So thick a haze o’er spreads the sky, They cannot see the sun on high; The wind hath blown a gale all day, At evening it hath died away. On the deck the Rover takes his stand, So dark it is they see no land. Quoth Sir Ralph, “It will be lighter soon, For there is the dawn of the rising Moon.” “Canst hear,” said one, “the breakers roar? For methinks, we should be near the shore.” “Now, where we are I cannot tell, But I wish we could hear the Inch cape Bell.” They hear no sound, the swell is strong, Though the wind hath fallen they drift along; Till the vessel strikes with a shivering shock, “Oh Christ! It is the Inch cape Rock!” Sir Ralph the Rover tore his hair, He burst himself in his despair; The waves rush in on every side, The ship is sinking beneath the tide. But even is his dying fear, One dreadful sound could the Rover hear; A sound as if with the Inch cape Bell, The Devil below was ringing his knell. 
 

 Believe me, if all those endearing young charms, Which I gaze on so fondly to-day, Were to change by to-morrow, and fleet in my arms, Live fairy-gifts fading away, Thou wouldst still be adored, as this moment thou art, Let thy loveliness fade as it will, And around the dear ruin each wish of my heartwood entwine itself verdantly still. It is not while beauty and youth are thine own, And thy cheeks profaned by a tear, That the fervor and faith of a soul may be known, To which time will but make the more dear! No, the heart that has truly loved never forgets, But as truly loves on to the close, As the sunflower turns on her god when he settle same look which she turned when he rose! 
 

The text of this poem could not be published because of Copyright laws.


 I taught myself to live simply and wisely, to look at the sky and pray to God, and to wander long before evening to tire my superfluous worries. When the burdock rustle in the ravine and the yellow-red rowan berry cluster droops compose happy verses about life's decay, decay and beauty. I come back. The fluffy cat licks my palm, purrs so sweetly and the fire flares Brighton the saw-mill turret by the lake. Only the cry of a stork landing on the roof occasionally breaks the silence. If you knock on my door may not even hear. 
 

 School, School, School, A school is not so coolie're here 5 days a week8 hours a day. School, School, School, A school is not so cool. People laugh when we fall we just have to make a call. School, School, Schools school is not so cool. We have to work hard to get good grades'm not going to do it no more do it every day. We can't go on the grass can't bother another class can't save spots at lunch have to go as a bunch. We have 3 minutes in the Hall'm always late what a ball. We have to pay attention if not we get detention. School, School, School, A school is not so cool. They have to many rules they play us as fools if we get A's the parents jump Hip Hip Hooray. If we get F'SWE tell them we need to take a rest. We always have homework we never have classwork they have to many rules they need to take it cool. School, School, School, A school is so not cool! 
 

 Listen to me as one listens to the rain, not attentive, not distracted, light footsteps, thin drizzle, water that is air, air that is time, the day is still leaving, the night has yet to arrive, figurations of mi stat the turn of the corner, figurations of ti meat the bend in this pause, listen to me as one listens to the rain, without listening, hear what I say with eyes open inward, asleep with all five senses awake, it's raining, light footsteps, a murmur of syllables, air and water, words with no weight:what we are and are, the days and years, this moment, weightless time and heavy sorrow, listen to me as one listens to the rain, wet asphalt is shining, steam rises and walks away, night unfolds and looks at me, you are you and your body of steam, you and your face of night, you and your hair, unhurried lightning, you cross the street and enter my forehead, footsteps of water across my eyes, listen to me as one listens to the rain, the asphalt's shining, you cross the street, it is the mist, wandering in the night, it is the night, asleep in your bed, it is the surge of waves in your breath, your fingers of water dampen my forehead, your fingers of flame burn my eyes, your fingers of air open eyelids of time, a spring of visions and resurrections, listen to me as one listens to the rain, the years go by, the moments return, do you hear the footsteps in the next room?not here, not there: you hear the min another time that is now, listen to the footsteps of time, inventor of places with no weight, nowhere, listen to the rain running over the terrace, the night is now more night in the grove, lightning has nestled among the leaves, a restless garden adrift-go in, your shadow covers this page. 
 

 My mind says — Leave it and proceed! My heart says — Stay and believe, Is it a tug of war between mind and heart?  When life is on crossroads — intrigue and pursues. This is too absurd and at times looks so surreal although my mind is strong and filled with knowledge Whereas, my heart is full of wisdom inspired by experiences Logic is trying hard to defeat dreams Soul is playing games with body. This tug of war is making life so meaningful, like uneven waves in normally a calm sea. 
 

 With two white roses on her breasts, White candles at head and feet, Dark Madonna of the grave she rests; Lord Death has found her sweet. Her mother pawned her wedding ring To lay her out in white; She'd be so proud she'd dance and sing to see herself tonight. 
 

 Oh, Companion! That Abode Is Unmatched, Where My Complete Beloved Is. In that Place There Is No Happiness or Unhappiness, No Truth or Untruth Neither Sin Nor Virtue. There Is No Day or Night, No Moon or Sun, There Is Radiance Without Light. There Is No Knowledge or Meditation No Repetition of Mantra or Austerities, Neither Speech Coming From Vedas or Books. Doing, Not-Doing, Holding, Leaving All These Are All Lost Too In This Place. No Home, No Homeless, Neither Outside nor Inside, Micro and Macrocosm Are Non-Existent. Five Elemental Constituents and the Trinity Are Both Not There Witnessing Unstuck Shaped Sound is Also Not There. No Root or Flower, Neither Branch nor Seed, Without a Tree Fruits are Adorning, Primordial Om Sound, Breath-Synchronized Sham, This and That — All Are Absent, The Breath Too Unknown Where the Beloved Is There is Utterly Nothing Says Air I Have Come To Realize. Whoever Sees My Indicative Sign Will Accomplish the Goal of Liberation. 
 

 I speak notes I bespeaking is not essentialSilence speaks for itselfEven eyes Breakspear thousand words my quivering lipsUnsaid words travel a million miles Sun speaks Moon speaksSpeaks the thunderstormWhen hearts Dartmouth says no woodenly the closeness snowshoe louder is the earthen it beatsBeating the loudness of sea-roars. 
 

 Nothing will keeps young you know not young men or women who spin their youth uncool playing sounds.we are what were what we never think we are.no more wild geographies of the flesh. Echoes. Thatwe move in tune to slower smells.it is a hard thing to admit that sometimes after midnight am tired of it all. 
 

 Genius, like gold and precious stones, is chiefly prized because of its rarity. Geniuses are people who dash of weird, wild, incomprehensible poems with astonishing facility, and get booming drunk and sleep in the gutter. Genius elevates its possessor to ineffable spheres far above the vulgar world and fills his soul with regal contempt for the gross and sordid things of earth. It is probably on account of this that people who have genius do not pay their board, as a general thing. Geniuses are very singular. If you see a young man who has drowsy hair and distraught look, and affects eccentricity in dress, you may set him down for a genius. If he sings about the degeneracy of a world which courts vulgar opulence and neglects brains, he is undoubtedly a genius. If he is too proud to accept assistance, and spurns it with a lordly air at the very same time that he knows he can't make a living to save his life, he is most certainly a genius. If he hangs on and sticks to poetry, notwithstanding sawing wood comes handier to him, he is a true genius. If he throws away every opportunity in life and crushes the affection and the patience of his friends and then protests in sickly rhymes of his hard lot, and finally persists, in spite of the sound advice of persons who have got sense but not any genius, persists in going up some infamous back alley dying in rags and dirt, he is beyond all question a genius. But above all things, to deftly throw the incoherent ravings of insanity into verse and then rush off and get booming drunk, is the surest of all the different signs of genius. 
 

 O beautiful for spacious skies, For amber waves of grain, For purple mountain majesties Above the fruited plain!  America! America!  God shed His grace on thee And crown thy good with brotherhood From sea to shining sea!  O beautiful for pilgrim feet, Whose stern, impassioned stress A thoroughfare for freedom beat Across the wilderness!  America! America!  God mend thine every flaw, Confirm thy soul in self-control, Thy liberty in law!  O beautiful for heroes proved In liberating strife, Who more than self their country loved, And mercy more than life!  America! America!  May God thy gold refine, Till all success be nobleness, And every gain divine!  O beautiful for patriot dream That sees beyond the years Thine alabaster cities gleam Undimmed by human tears!  America! America!  God shed His grace on thee And crown thy good with brotherhood From sea to shining sea! 
 

 The low yellow moon above theories lamp lit house. 
 

 Everything’s looted, betrayed and traded,Black Death’s wing’s overhead. Everything’s eaten by hunger, unsated, so why does a light shine ahead? By day, a mysterious wood, near the town, breathes out cherry, a cherry perfume. By night, on July’s sky, deep, and transparent, new constellations are thrown. And something miraculous will come close to the darkness and ruin, something no-one, no-one, has known, though we’ve longed for it since we were children. 
 

 Honesty is beautifulKindness is beautifulIntelligence is beautifulTalent is beautifulBeautiful is a romance with such abundanceBeautiful are the flowers that roam the earthBeautiful is awaking to the sound of singing birdsBeautiful is a disguisePlaying hide-and-seek inside and outsideBeautiful is as naked as the rising beautiful is delightful and truthfulBeautiful is the golden daylight that Rhineland the taste of sweet colored red wineBeautiful was never ever created by mistakeBeautiful is the ingredient we bake life's crewmen all or nothing is at stake am beautiful are beautiful are beautifulBeautiful is greatBeautiful is sweetBeautiful is loveBeautiful is overcome to me Mr. & Mrs. Beautifully me into your little secret why you are so obedient and dutifulCopyright 2005 — Sylvia Chili www.sylviachidi.comCheck out my bestseller Alien book from Amazon in September 2012. (Only Trees Live Forever) All my books are available on Amazon 
 

 Out of the starless night that covers me, (O tribulation of the wind that rolls!) Black as the cloud of some tremendous spell, The usurpation of the sighing sea Sounds like the sobbing whisper of two soulsThat tremble in a passion of farewell. To the desires that trebled life in me, (O melancholy of the wind that rolls!) The dreams that seemed the future to foretell, The hopes that mounted her ward like the sea, To all the sweet things sent on happy souls, I cannot choose but bid a mute farewell. And to the girl who was so much to me(O lamentation of this wind that rolls!) Since I may not the life of her compel, Out of the night, beside the sounding sea, Full of the love that might have blend our souls, A sad, a last, a long, supreme farewell. 
 

 I. No one's serious at seventeen.--On beautiful nights when beer and lemonade loud, blinding cafés are the last thing you need--You stroll beneath green lindens on the promenade. Lindens smell fine on fine June nights! Sometimes the air is so sweet that you close your eyes;The wind brings sounds--the town is near--And carries scents of vineyards and beer. . .II.--Over there, framed by a branch can see a little patch of dark blessing by a sinister star that fadesWith faint quivering, so small and white. . . June nights! Seventeen!--Drink it in. Sap is champagne, it goes to your head. . . The mind wanders, you feel a mission your lips, quivering like a living thing. . .III. The wild heart Crusoe's through a thousand novels--And when a young girl walks alluringlyThrough a streetlamp's pale light, beneath the ominous shadoof her father's starched collar. . . Because as she passes by, boot heels tapping, She turns on a dime, eyes wide, Finding you too sweet to resist. . .--And captains die on your lips.IV. You're in love. Off the market till August. You're in love.--Your sonnets make Her laugh. Your friends are gone, you're bad news.--Then, one night, your beloved, writes. . .! That night. . .you return to the blinding cafés;You order beer or lemonade. . .--No one's serious at seventeen When lindens line the promenade. 
 

 Poetry is a solitary artist beautiful words come aliveWhile we write. As we go on penningLovely words smile and singling and dance Right before our very asthma touch our heartfelt up our dreary sensesTingle our Midland make rightful of love. Copyright 2018, Rose Marie Juan-Austin, All Rights Reserved. 
 

 We decided to have the abortion, became killers together. The period that came changed nothing. They were dead, that young couple who had been for life. As we talked of it in bed, the crash was not a surprise. We went to the window, looked at the crushed cars and the gleaming curved shears of glass as if we had done it. Cops pulled the bodies bloody as births from the small, smoking aperture of the door, laid Theron the hill, covered them with blankets that soaked through. Blood began to pour down my legs into my slippers. I stood where I was until they shot the bound form into the black hole of the ambulance and stood the other one up, a bandage covering its head, stained where the eyes had been. The next morning I had to kneel an hour on that floor, to clean up my blood, rubbing with wet cloths at those glittering translucent spots, as one has to soak along time to deg laze the pan when the feast is over. Anonymous submission. 
 

 A trusting little leaf of green, A bold audacious frost; A rendezvous, a kiss or two, And youth for ever lost.  Ah, me!  The bitter, bitter cost. A flaunting patch of vivid red, That quivers in the sun; A windy gust, a grave of dust, The little race is run.  Ah, me!  Were that the only one. 
 

 This life is a hospital where every patient is possessed with the desire to change beds; one man would like to suffer in front of the stove, and another beliefs that he would recover his health beside the window. It always seems to me that I should feel well in the place where I am not, and this question of removal is one which I discuss incessantly with my soul.' Tell me, my soul, poor chilled soul, what do you think of going to live in Lisbon? It must be warm there, and there you would invigorate yourself like a lizard. This city is on the sea-shore; they say that it is built of marble and that the people there have such a hatred of vegetation that they uproot all the trees. There you have a landscape that corresponds to your taste! A landscape made of light and mineral, and liquid to reflect them!' My soul does not reply.' Since you are so fond of stillness, coupled with the show of movement, would you like to settle in Holland, that beatifying country? Perhaps you would find some diversion in that land whose image you have so often admired in the art galleries. What do you think of Rotterdam, you who love forests of masts, and ships moored at the foot of houses?' My soul remains silent.' Perhaps Batavia attracts you more? There we should find, amongst other things, the spirit of Europe married to tropical beauty.' Not a word. Could my soul be dead?' Is it then that you have reached such a degree of lethargy that you acquiesce in your sickness? If so, let us flee to lands that are analogues of death. I see how it is, poor soul! We shall pack our trunks for Torino. Let us go farther still to the extreme end of the Baltic; or farther still from life, if that is possible; let us settle at the Pole. There the sun only grazes the earth obliquely, and the slow alternation of light and darkness suppresses variety and increases monotony, that half-nothingness. There we shall be able to take long baths of darkness, while for our amusement the aurora borealis shall send us its rose-coloured rays that are like the reflection of Hell's own fireworks!' At last soul explodes, and wisely cries out to me: 'No matter where! No matter where! As long as it's out of the world!' 
 

 A man said to the universe: “Sir I exist!” “However,” replied the universe, “The fact has not created in me A sense of obligation.” 
 

 The taste of rain—Why kneel? 
 

 Heavenly cursed and heavily sinned In more I like to add them, so, I want to died I want to become a holy fathom the people would like the most. Like the retreating soldiers I like to come back my own permanent and eternal home You may call it a suicide or martyrdom. In my real home I see the becoming from the lipstick coated lips On the television of my molten death People are sobbing with a heavy breath. The atmosphere is heavy, and they feel the painters thrills me and gives a feeling of gain. The only son of my father only darling of my motherFainted repeatedly on the cushion Peal like teardrops coming from my beloved son, Friends and relatives express grief in the community hall, All these excite me and I sought to say'' I love you all.'' For the first time in my life in my last ritual I listen From those men that I was really a very good man. In such intense atmosphere of gloom and sad My heart cheers and I become too much glad. < BR> < BR> < BR>death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death death 
 

 There are many cumbersome ways to kill a man. You can make him carry a plank of wood to the top of a hill and nail him to it. To do this properly you require a crowd of people wearing sandals, a cock that crows, a cloak to dissect, a sponge, some vinegar and ONEMA to hammer the nails home. Or you can take a length of steel, shaped and chased traditionally, and attempt to pierce the metal cage he wears. But for this you need white horses, English trees, men with bows and arrows, at least two flags, a prince, and castle to hold your banquet in. Dispensing with nobility, you may, if the wind allows, blow gas at him. But then you need mile of mud sliced through with ditches, not to mention black boots, bomb craters, more mud, a plague of rats, a dozen song sand some round hats made of steel. In an age of airplanes, you may fly miles above your victim and dispose of him by pressing one small switch. All you then require is an ocean to separate you, two systems of government, a nation's scientists, several factories, a psychopath and land that no-one needs for several years. These are, as I began, cumbersome ways to kill a man. Simpler, direct, and much more neat is to see that he is living somewhere in the middle of the twentieth century, and leave him there. 
 

 By day the bat is cousin to the mouse. He likes the attic of an aging house. His fingers make a hat about his head. His pulse beat is so slow we think him dead. He loops in crazy figures half the nightlong the trees that face the corner light. But when he brushes up against a screen, We are afraid of what our eyes have seen:For something is amiss or out of placement mice with wings can wear a human face. 
 

 God's creationBlessed to be born in this world all may feel that's the truthUntil I read this-An abandoned babyMalnourished, hardly a year famine buckskin and bone No food to feed No water to haveStranded alone in barren landHelpless eyes staring straightStanding legs more like a bamboo stickCerebral neurons popping contains struggling to carry weak blood God! Nothing more I can add… My heart is not strong enough To read the rest-A vampire vultureSitting beside onlooking eager to end its hunger! I pray! Save these innocents! Let this never happen again! 
 

 If you place a fern under a stone the next day it will be nearly invisible as if the stone has swallowed it. If you tuck the name of a loved one under your tongue too long without speaking IIT becomes bloodsighthe little sucked-in breath of air hiding everywhere beneath your words. No one seethe fuel that feeds you. Submitted by R. Joyce Heon. 
 

 Childhood, sweet and sunny childhood, With its careless, thoughtless air, Like the verdant, tangled Wildwood, Wants the training hand of care. See it springing all around us -- Glad to know, and quick to learn;Asking questions that confound us; Teaching lessons in its turn. Who loves not its joyous revel, Leaping lightly on the lawn, Up the knoll, along the level, Free and graceful as a fawn? Let it revel; it is nature Giving to the little dearsStrength of limb, and healthful features, For the toil of coming years. He who checks a child with terror, Stops its play, and stills its song, Not alone commits an error, But a great and moral wrong. Give it play, and never fear it -- Active life is no defect;Never, never break its spirit -- Curb it only to direct. Would you dam the flowing river, Thinking it would cease to flow? Onward it must go forever -- Better teach it where to go. Childhood is a fountain welling, Trace its channel in the sand, And its currents, spreading, swelling, Will revive the withered land. Childhood is the vernal season; Trim and train the tender shoot;Love is to the coming reason, As the blossom to the fruit. Tender twigs are bent and folded -- Art to nature beauty lends;Childhood easily is molded; Manhood breaks, but seldom bends. 
 

 EVEN such is Time, that takes in trust Our youth, our joys, our all we have, And pays us but with earth and dust; Who in the dark and silent grave, When we have wandered'd all our ways, Shuts up the story of our days; But from this earth, this grave, this dust, My God shall raise me up, I trust. 
 

 My father has paid the rent and the insurance man is gone and the lights is back on and my uncle bred has hit for one dollar straight and they are good timesgood times my mother has made bread and gram paw has command everybody is drunkard dancing in the kitchen and singing in the kitchen of This is good timesgood times oh children think about the good times 
 

 Snow fell in the night. At five-fifteen I woke to a bluish mounded softness where the Honda was. Cat fed and coffee made, I boomed snow off the ca rand drove to the Rearrange Mini-Martbefore Amy opened to yank my Globe out of the bundle. Back, I set my cup of coffee beside Jane, still half-asleep, murmuring stuporousthanks in the aquamarine morning. Then I sat in my blue chair with blueberry bagels and strong black coffee reading news, the obits, the comics, and the sports. Carrying my cup twenty feet, I sat myself at the desk for this day's lifelong engagement with the one task and desire. 
 

 I behold you as the solitary flowers the ends of a branch-letAh, your fragrance travels miles Gratifying even the dull insects! You are a naive pinnate whiteDazzle in your sparkling beauty I know not where I am now Ibid you my earnestly bow! I love you for your delicacyEnthralling my soul with sheer ecstasy hear something that you whisperer benignly in my ear! I am so temporary and short livedPlease don't pluck me, don't be rigid can't move as I am unmovedJust care me in my solitude! Oh, my lovely Jasmine learn a lot from your delicate lifetime my flying kiss in sublime mood will bethink you in my solitude! Copyright poet,24 December 2018 
 

 A little while, a little while, The weary task is put away, And I can sing and I can smile, Alike, while I have holiday. Why wilt thou go, my harassed heart, What thought, what scene invites thee now? What spot, or near or far, Has rest for thee, my weary brow? There is a spot, mid barren hills, Where winter howls, and driving rain;But if the dreary tempest chills, There is a light that warms again. The house is old, the trees are bare, Moonless above bends twilight's dome;But what on earth is half so dear, So longed for, as the hearth of home? The mute bird sitting on the stone, The dank moss dripping from the wall, The thorn-trees gaunt, the walks o'regrown, I love them, how I love them all! Still, as I mused, the naked room, The alien firelight died away, And from the midst of cheerless gloomy passed to bright unclouded day. A little and a lone green lethal opened on a common wide;A distant, dreamy, dim blue chief mountains circling every side;A heaven so clear, an earth so calm, So sweet, so soft, so hushed an air;And, deepening still the dream-like charm, Wild moor-sheep feeding everywhere. That was the scene, I knew it well;I knew the turfy pathway's sweetheart, winding o'er each billowy swell, Marked out the tracks of wandering sheep. Could I have lingered but an hour, It well had paid a week of toil;But Truth has banished Fancy's power:Restraint and heavy task recoil? Even as I stood with raptured eye, Absorbed in bliss so deep and dear, My hour of rest had fleeted by, And back came labor, bondage, care. 
 

 Every time I kiss after a long separation feel am I putting a hurried love lettering a red mailbox. Translated by B. Frankie And C. BrownSubmitted by Noble Aabye. 
 

 A bee staggers out of the peony. Translated by Robert Hass. 
 

 I am mad with love And no one understands my plight. Only the wounded Understand the agonies of the wounded, When the fire rages in the heart. Only the jeweler knows the value of the jewel, Not the one who lets it go. In pain, I wander from door to door, But could not find a doctor. Says Mira: Harden, my Master, Mira's pain will subside When Sham comes as the doctor. 


 Know'st thou not at the fall of the leaf the heart feels a languid grief Laid on it for a covering, And how sleep seems a goodly thing In Autumn at the fall of the leaf? And how the swift beat of the brainwashers because it is in vain, In Autumn at the fall of the leaf Know est thou not? And how the chief joys seems—not to suffer pain? Know'st thou not at the fall of the leaf the soul feels like a dried sheaf Bound up at length for harvesting, And how death seems a comely thing In Autumn at the fall of the leaf? 
 

 You could have been more polite observing me, Your harsh words have left An indelible impression, Hatred can be won by love alone, As one gets relief from Scorching heat By gentle rain, As the sermon of a saint soothes The disturbed mind, Your words could have healed The wounds of my heart, For once you touched me, felt me, And covered your being with my love, As you said, You smelt my love and called it red rose, What's happened now? Thorns have grown on my lips, My being has become the grave of your hatred, Is it a diversion Or you're posing to be more sensible? 
 

 I am accused of tending to the pastas if I made it, as if I sculpted it with my own hands. I did not.this past was waiting for moorhen I came, a monstrous unnamed baby, and i with my mother's itch took it to breast and named history.she is more human now, learning languages every day, remembering faces, names and dates.when she is strong enough to travel on her own, beware, she will. 
 

 I wish you were here, dear, I wish you were here. I wish you sat on the sofa and I sat near. The handkerchief could be yours, the tear could be mine, chin-bound. Though it could be, of course, the other way around. I wish you were here, dear, I wish you were here. I wish we were in my car and you'd shift the gear. We'd find ourselves elsewhere, on an unknown shore. Or else we'd repair to where we've been before. I wish you were here, dear, I wish you were here. I wish I knew no astronomy when stars appear, when the moon skims the water that sighs and shifts in its slumber. I wish it were still a quarter to dial your number. I wish you were here, dear, in this hemisphere, as I sit on the porch sipping a beer. It's evening, the sun is setting; boys shout and gulls are crying. What's the point of forgetting if it's followed by dying? 
 

 (You say) It is not love, it is madness madness may be the cause of your nameserver not my relationship with you nothing then be my enemyWhat is the meaning of notoriety in meeting Meir not in public court meet me alone am not my own enemy what if the stranger is in love with whatever you are, it is due to your own being this not known then it is ignoranceLife though fleets like a lightening flashes it is abundant Time to be in love do not want debate on the sustenance of love Be it not loves but another dilemmaGive something O biased Neat least the sanction to cry and plea will perpetuate the ritualsEven if cruelty be your habituating and cajoling the beloved cannot leave 'Sad'Even if there is no union and only the desire remains 
 

 I come from there and I have memories Born as mortals are, I have a mother And a house with many windows, I have brothers, friends, And a prison cell with a cold window. Mine is the wave, snatched by sea-gulls, I have my own view, And an extra blade of grass. Mine is the moon at the far edge of the words, And the bounty of birds, And the immortal olive tree. I walked this land before the swords Turned its living body into a laden table. I come from there. I render the sky unto her mother When the sky weeps for her mother. And I weep to make myself known To a returning cloud. I learned the words worthy of the court of blood So that I could break the rule. I learned the words and broke them up To make a single word: Homeland..... 
 

 I had walked since dawn and lay down to rest on a bare hillsideAbove the ocean. I saw through half-shut eyelids a vulture wheeling high up in heaven, And presently it passed again, but lower and nearer, its orbit narrowing, I understood tenth I was under inspection. I lay death-still and heard the flight- feathersWhistle above me and make their circle and come nearer. I could see the naked red head between the great winger downward staring. I said, 'My dear bird, we are wasting time here. These old bones will still work; they are not for you.' But how beautiful he looked, gliding down those great sails; how beautiful he looked, veering away in the sea-light over the precipice. I tell you solemnlyThat I was sorry to have disappointed him. To be eaten by that beak and become part of him, to share those wings and those eyes--What a sublime end of one's body, what an enjoyment; what a life after death. 
 

 My old flame, my wife! Remember our lists of birds? One morning last summer, I drove by our house in Maine. It was Stilton top of its hill -Now a red ear of Indian maize was splashed on the door. Old Glory with thirteen stripes hung on a pole. The clapboard was old-red schoolhouse red. Inside, a new landlord, a new wife, a new broom! Atlantic seaboard antique shop pewter and plunder shone in each room. A new frontier! No running next door now to phone the sheriff for his taxi to Bat hand the State Liquor Store! No one saw your ghostly imaginary lover stare through the window and tighten the scarf at his throat. Health to the new people, health to their flag, to their old restored house on the hill! Everything had been swept bare, furnished, garnished and aired. Everything's changed for the best -how quivering and fierce we were, there snowbound together, simmering like wasp sin our tent of books! Poor ghost, old love, speak with your old voice of flaming insight that kept us awake all night. In one bed and apart, we heard the plow groaning up hill -a red light, then a blue, as it tossed off the snow to the side of the road. 
 

 Once upon a time, in the land of Hush-A-Bye, Around about the wondrous days of yore, They came across a kind of box Bound up with chains and locked with locks And labeled 'Kindly do not touch; it's war.' A decree was issued round about, and all with a flourish and a shout And a gaily colored mascot tripping lightly on before. Don't fiddle with this deadly box, Or break the chains, or pick the locks. And please don't ever play about with war. The children understood. Children happen to be good And they were just as good around the time of yore. They didn't try to pick the locks break into that deadly box. They never tried to play about with war. Mommies didn't either; sisters, aunts, grannies neither 'Cause they were quiet, and sweet, and pretty In those wondrous days of yore. Well, very much the same as now, And not the ones to blame somehow For opening up that deadly box of war. But someone did. Someone battered in the lid And spilled the insides out across the floor. A kind of bouncy, bumpy ball made up of guns and flags And all the tears, and horror, and death that comes with war. It bounced right out and went bashing all about, Bumping into everything in store. And what was sad and most unfair Was that it didn't really seem to care Much who it bumped, or why, or what, or for. It bumped the children mainly. And I'll tell you this quite plainly, It bumps them every day and more, and more, And leaves them dead, and burned, and dying Thousands of them sick and crying. 'Cause when it bumps, it's really very sore. Now there's a way to stop the ball. It isn't difficult at all. All it takes is wisdom, and I'm absolutely sure That we can get it back into the box, And bind the chains, and lock the locks. But no one seems to want to save the children anymore. Well, that's the way it all appears, 'cause it's been bouncing round for years and years In spite of all the wisdom whizzed since those wondrous days of yore And the time they came across the box, Bound up with chains and locked with locks, And labeled 'Kindly do not touch; it's war.' 
 
